------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------- All corrections and updates are to be made to this document. --------
------------------------------------------------------------------------------


=========
=Acrobat=
=========
Q Is the Marionette Townsfolk considered poisoned for the sake of the Acrobat?
A No, they are sober and healthy.

Q Does the Acrobat still die if are protected by the Monk when they pick a No Dashii poisoned Townsfolk?
A Yes, as it is the Acrobat's own ability that is killing them, not the Demon's.

Q Does the Puzzlemaster drunk / Widow poisoned player trigger the Acrobat's ability?
A Yes.
  The Acrobat's death could give a great clue to the Puzzlemaster.

Q Can the drunk or poisoned Acrobat die when they pick a drunk or poisoned player?
A No.

  The drunk or poisoned Acrobat cannot die to their own ability, regardless of who they pick.

Q Does the Acrobat immediately die if their pick gets drunk or poisoned or can they be protected (Innkeeper / Tea Lady)?
A They can be protected.


===========
=Alchemist=
===========
Q Can the good Apprentice have the Alchemist ability so gain a Minion ability?
A Yes.

Q Does the Alchemist Baron change the Outsider count?
A Yes.  Two Townsfolk characters are replaced by Outsiders.

Q Does the Drunk who thinks that they are the Alchemist Baron add Outsiders?
A No.

Q The Bounty Hunter turning the Alchemist evil ... that is just another Minion ability being used by evil, right?
A Yes.

Q The Alchemist Cerenovus picks a player.  What token is that player shown?
A Madness due to the Cerenovus or the Alchemist Cerenovus runs the same:
  the target is still shown the Cerenovus token, as well as the token of the character that they are mad as.

Q Does the Alchemist ping the Chambermaid when they learn what Minion ability they have?
A Yes, and after N1 they might still register to the Chambermaid, depending on the Minion ability gained.

Q How does the Alchemist Evil Twin work?
A The Alchemist ET learns an evil player and their character as their evil aligned twin.
  The evil player learns the Alchemist as the good aligned Evil Twin.
  If the good Alchemist ET is executed, evil wins.
  Good cannot win while both of the Twins live.

  Practically the ST wakes the Alchemist, points to an evil player and shows the Alchemist their character token.
  The ST then wakes the same evil player, points to the Alchemist and shows them the Evil Twin character token.

Q What is announced when the Alchemist Fearmonger has picked a player?
A The announcement is the same as for the Fearmonger: "a player has been chosen with the Fearmonger ability".

Q Is it valid for the Alchemist Goblin's win condition for them to publicly claim to be the Alchemist Goblin rather than the Goblin?
A Yes.

  Technically the ability requires claiming to be the Goblin in order to win when executed,
  but it would be harsh to not treat both as valid claims.

Q Does the Alchemist Godfather change the Outsider count?
A Yes, and learns which Outsiders are in play.

Q Can the Alchemist have the Legion ability?
A No, Legion is a Demon not a Minion.  Only after the ability is in play can the Legion player register as Minion.

Q How does the Alchemist who gains the Marionette ability work? / How does the Marionette who thinks that they are the Alchemist work?
A These pairings should be avoided as it is unfun and uninteresting.

  In both cases they are effectively the drunk or poisoned Alchemist and are told the wrong ability that has no effect,
  and the Demon would learn who the Marionette is and would be their neighbour.
  If it is the Alchemist with the Marionette ability,
  the Demon would immediately know this as they would not have been shown them as a Minion during Demon info.

Q How does the Alchemist Mezepheles work?
A The ability still works as it normally does - the first good player to say the word turns evil.

  The Alchemist can say it immediately and turn themself evil,
  or they could not say it and not lead anyone else to say it
  and just play for the good team with the knowledge that there is no extra evil player in the game.

Q What happens if the Pit-Hag changes a player into the Alchemist but there is no out of play Minion abilities?
A If all Minion abilities are already in play,
  then the ST gives the Alchemist the ability of an in play Minion.
  This is true whether an Alchemist is created after all Minion abilities are put into play or an Alchemist has always been around.

Q Can the Alchemist Pit-Hag make a Pit-Hag?
A Yes, but then as the Alchemist no longer has an out of play Minion ability, they must be given a new out of play Minion ability.
  Unless all Minion abilities are in play, in which case it is ST choice whether to let the Alchemist keep the Pit-Hag ability or switch it.

Q Is the Alchemist's Minion ability considered to be in play when the Plague Doctor dies?
A Yes, the ST must choose another out of play Minion ability if there is one.

Q Can the Alchemist have the Recluse ability?
A No, the Recluse is not a Minion.

Q Could the Recluse misregister as an out of play Minion to the Alchemist to potentially give the Alchemist an in play Minion ability?
A Yes.

  When all Minion abilities are in play, or registering as such, then the Alchemist is allowed to have an in play Minion ability.
  Though the ST would have to have a good reason to use the Recluse in this way.

Q How does the Alchemist Scarlet Woman work in a Legion game?
A When any Legion player dies, the SW becomes Legion.

Q Can the Alchemist Scarlet Woman become the Demon?
A Yes.

Q If the Imp self-kills, does the Alchemist Scarlet Woman become the Imp?
A Yes. But, as the Alchemist is not a Minion, a living Minion also becomes the Imp.

Q How does an Alchemist Summoner work?
A The game start with a Demon in play, as normal.
  The Alchemist is given three Summoner bluffs and 
  on N3 they can choose a player to become a Demon, but that player does not change their alignment.

Q If the Alchemist has the Vizier ability, do players know that they are the Alchemist?
A No, they are announced as the Vizier.
  The "everyone knows who you are" refers to the _ability_ they have.
  The same applies to Cannibal Nightwatchman, Philosopher King etc.

  When the Alchemist is on the script,
  it is extremely common for the actual Vizier to bluff that they are the Alchemist by choosing not to execute unless at least three people vote.

  Note that as per the jinx the Alchemist Vizier may only choose to execute immediately if three or more players voted, regardless of those players' alignment;
  if they opt to enforce the execution when fewer than three players have voted
  then it is a similar situation to the Butler voting without their master or the Golem nominating a second time:
  potentially a pardonable accident or deliberate cheating that the group will have to handle accordingly.

Q What happens when the Alchemist is drunk or poisoned on their first night? / How does the Philosopher picking Alchemist N1 affect the Alchemist?
A Their ability is something the Alchemist starts knowing
  and just as with any start knowing character who is drunk or poisoned
  they can get wrong info on their first night
  that is not corrected if they become sober and healthy.

  On N1 the ST assigns the Alchemist an out of play Minion ability.
  But if they are N1 drunk or poisoned then instead of learning their correct ability
  they can be told that they have another ability,
  typically one that is in play,
  and the ST will treat them as having that ability.
  When the Alchemist becomes sober and healthy, they do not change abilities, their actual ability that they had from setup now functions correctly,
  and the ST now treats them as having that ability.
  Note that the Alchemist is only ever informed of a change of ability when they actually change ability, which is not the case here, so the ST tells them nothing.

Q The Alchemist has an out of play Minion ability.
  What happens when the corresponding Minion becomes in play (Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / ...)?
A The Alchemist must be given an out of play Minion ability.
  She is woken and informed of her new ability.
  If all Minion abilities on the script are in play, the Alchemist is allowed to duplicate one,
  but she should probably still be woken and given a new ability to signal that a new Minion has entered play.

  Note that this all still applies if a dead player becomes the corresponding Minion: the character of a dead player is still considered to be in play.

Q The Alchemist is correctly told that they have an out of play Minion ability.
  On a later night after they are drunk / poisoned,
  can the ST simulate that the relevant Minion is now in play and tell the Alchemist that they now have a different Minion ability?
A While drunk or poisoned they can be told anything.
  It is easiest to just leave them thinking they have the Minion ability they were told,
  but for it to no longer function.

  However, the ST can tell them they have a different ability to one that they truly have
  and wake and prompt them according to their fake ability.
  Once they are sober and healthy though they must act as their actual ability does.

Q Does the Alchemist with a Minion ability like the Godfather or the Baron change the Outsider count?
A Yes, if they started the game with that ability then its setup effect happens.

  If they start the game with a Minion ability that has no setup effect
  and are later switched to having one that does,
  then the setup effects do not happen mid game.

Q How is the Alchemist run if all the Minion abilities on the script are in play?
A They duplicate an in play ability.

  This could happen for instance in a 14 player Lil' Monsta game, which results in four in play Minions -
  this is why it is better to have 5+ Minions on an Alchemist/Lil' Monsta scripts to avoid such a scenario.

Q Can the Minion the Alchemist has the ability of come into play (Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / ...) ?
A Yes, and the Alchemist would then change ability if there is still an out of play Minion ability available.

  If there is no out of play Minion ability remaining, 
  the Alchemist could either keep the same ability or change to a different in play ability. 
  It should probably change to signal to the Alchemist that the corresponding Minion has entered play as is usually the case.

  If an Alchemist ever changes ability, they should be told by showing the "you are" token, followed by the Alchemist token and new Minion token.

Q How does the Alchemist interact with the Marionette ability?
A From the experimental how to run:
  "Marionette: Do not make the Alchemist the Marionette if you can avoid it, it is not fun or interesting.
  In both cases (the Alchemist who gains the Marionette ability or the Marionette who thinks that they are the Alchemist)
  the only resolution is to just treat them as a poisoned/drunk Alchemist and tell them the wrong ability and not have it affect anyone.
  In both cases the Demon would learn who the Marionette is and would be their neighbour. 
  If it is an Alchemist with the Marionette ability, the Demon would immediately know this as they would not have been shown them as a Minion during Demon info."

Q The Alchemist jinx with the Spy is that the Alchemist cannot get the Spy ability, so if the only out of play Minion is the Spy, does the Alchemist get an in play Minion ability instead?
A That is a reasonable solution.

Q If the Alchemist is dead when the Minion she has the ability for is put into play, is she still told she changed ability?
A No, because she no longer has the ability that would be giving her an out of play Minion ability.
  But if she were to later come back to life, then she would be told she has a new ability,
  but she will not know if that is because that Minion has entered play while she was dead,
  or if the ST just gave her a different out of play Minion ability
  (since that resurrected Alchemist would be a new instance and can get a new ability so long as it is also out of play).

Q Can the Alchemist Goblin be nominated, claim Goblin, then nominate the Virgin, and win?
A Yes.

  The Goblin's ability reads "if you publicly claim to be the Goblin when nominated and are executed that day, your team wins."
  So she does not have to be executed because of her nomination, but if she is executed the same day, her team, the good team, wins.

Q Could the good Goblin be nominated, claim Goblin, then nominate the Virgin, and win?
A No, as the Goblin is a Minion and only Townsfolk can trigger the Virgin.

Q Could the Alchemist be forced to change ability by having the Recluse misregister as the Minion whose ability the Alchemist currently has?
A Yes.

Q Can a second instance of the Alchemist ability (Apprentice / Cannibal / Philosopher / Pixie) have the same ability as the Alchemist?
A Yes, if the ST wants them to, since the Minion that the Alchemist has the ability of is out of play.

  The Alchemist is treated as having the ability of an out of play Minion,
  rather than they have an out of play Minion ability.
  This is the opposite of how the Plague Doctor is run: the PD considers the Minion ability of the Alchemist to be in play so must grant a different ability

Q Does a jinx on a Minion apply to the Alchemist who has the corresponding ability?
A Yes.

  Jinxes apply to abilities not characters
  so whether a player is the Minion or the Alchemist with that Minion's ability does not matter; they are still affected by any relevant jinxes.


=============
=Al-Hadikhia=
=============
Q How can the Al-Hadikhia resurrect players?
A A dead player who chooses live will come back to life,
  as long as one of the other picks says die.

Q What is the timing for Al-Hadikhia deaths?
A As with any multi-kill Demon, players die in the order chosen.

  Either a player dies as soon as they choose to die
  or, if all three players are still alive after they made their choices,
  they each die in the order chosen.

  This is important for abilties that activate on death (Banshee / Barber / Farmer / Ravenkeeper / Sage)
  as RAW these are triggered as soon as the corresponding player dies,
  interrupting any further annoucements or deaths due to the Al-Had.
  Note that there is disagreement over this interpretation.
  But interruptions only matter in some cases such as when players may swap character or determining which of the dead players was announced as the Banshee,
  while postponing some triggered abilities has no effect such as when a player learns information.  

Q In an Al-Hadikhia game, do other players know who else was chosen? 
A Yes, they are announced publicly.

  The ST will announce, "The Al-Hadikhia has chosen X" then wake X for their choice of live or die.
  Then they do the same for the next two players chosen.
  So the first player chosen will not know who has been chosen second or third, and the second player chosen will not know who has been chosen third. But all players do learn.

  The ST should remind players to be silent during this process,
  so that the only thing players will be hearing during this time, in terms of the game anyway,
  is the ST making the announcements.

Q If the Al-Hadikhia is drunk or poisoned, are her picks still woken?
A No.

  While drunk or poisoned she cannot affect other players: there is no announcement and no waking of her targets.
  The Al-Hadikhia will then realise that she was drunk / poisoned or think that she might be the Lunatic.

Q Could a dead player with on death ability (Ravenkeeper / Sage / ...) be triggered by the Al-Hadikhia?
A Yes.

  Each time a player with an on death ability dies their ability can be triggered
  and the Al-Hadikhia can very easily pull this off.

  The chosen dead player would need to choose live to be immediately resurrected,
  then should all three picks be alive after they made their choices,
  through any combination of choosing to live or being unable to die,
  then that player would die again, triggering their on death ability, potentially for the second time in the game.

  So:
  * the Ravenkeeper might end up learning two players' identities;
  * the Sage might receive two pairs of players if they died twice to the Demon.

Q If an Al-Hadikhia pick does not die due to protection (Fool / Innkeeper / Monk / Sailor / Soldier / Tea Lady / ...) does this register to the Mathematician?
A Yes, as the Al-Had's ability has malfunctioned due to another character's ability.

  Note that the Fool dying twice to the Al-Had in the same night is the Fool ability working as intended,
  so the Fool themself does not uptick the Mathematician,
  but the Al-Had would have upticked the Mathematician the first time the Fool survived.

Q If only three players live, one of them being the Al-Hadikhia, and the game moves to the night, does the game end?
A Almost certainly.

  The game ends as soon as an end condition is met, which can occur before a character ability has fully resolved.
  With just two players left alive the game ends so the game can end in the middle of the Al-Hadikhia's picks,
  which, as with the other multi-kill Demons, happen in order.
  
  If the Al-Hadikhia chooses the three living players with herself last, she is guaranteed to win as long as she says "live":
  If any of the two players before her say die, they die immediately and the game is over with only two players left alive, evil wins.
  If all say "live" then they die in order, so the first player dies leaving just two players left alive, the game is over and evil wins.

  If, instead to be safe, the Al-Hadikhia chooses the other two living players and a dead player,
  then if anyone says die the game is over,
  and if they all choose live, then they all die and, again, the game is over.

  The ST still needs to prompt the Al-Hadikhia for her picks because she could still mess up,
  by choosing dead players that then resurrect:
  a dead pick will say live and at least one of other picks will say die so the game continues because there are now still more than two alive.

  It is of course also possible for the living player picked with two dead players to mess up,
  as should they pick die then the game instantly ends, no matter what the dead players pick.
  
  The Al-Hadikhia could get unlucky and end up in a final three with the Soldier and the unprocced Fool ...

Q At four alive,
  the Al-Hadikhia picks two other players and themself that night, in that order.
  All three pick live.
  What happens?
A Evil wins.

  Since all three are alive at the end of their choices, all three will die in the order chosen.
  Assuming that there is no protection the first two picks die then,
  because there are only two players left alive before the Demon is scheduled to die,
  evil immediately wins.

  Evil wins when there are two players alive, and unless an ability says otherwise such as the Mastermind or the Evil Twin,
  the game immediately ends and abilities do not finish resolving first.

Q The Al-Hadikhia picks two living players and one dead player.
  If the living players both choose live and the dead player die, do the living players now die?
A No.

  After waking the third player and taking their choice, if all three players are alive, all three die.
  Since one of the players is dead, the other two do not die.


---------------create separate entries?
Q In a final four, if the Barber, the Farmer and the last good/evil player are picked by the Al-Hadikhia and all choose live,
  does the Barber and the Farmer stuff still happen?
A Yes, in the order that they were picked.

  The players would die in the order the Al-Had chose them,
  with any on death abilities handled as they trigger,
  but the ST will end the game as soon as end game condition is met, 
  such as only two players left alive.
  So if the choices were the Farmer, the Barber, and another role in that order,
  the Farmer would die and someone would become the Farmer,
  then the player who was the Barber would die and the game would end. 

  If the Barber were first,
  the Al-Had would be offered the Barber swap,
  and if they swapped themself then the rest of the kills would not happen.
  If they instead swapped the Barber with the Farmer,
  then the Farmer would not trigger and instead there would be another Barber swap.
  Theoretically there could be three Barber swaps.

Q How does the Barista doubled Al-Hadikhia work?
A The entirety of the choosing and killing process happens twice:
  from the Al-Hadikhia choosing three players who decide to live/die to the end of the activation,
  then back to the start to do it again.

Q Does the Barista doubled target of the Al-Hadikhia get to choose to live or die twice?
A No, it is only that player's ability that is doubled, not the Al-Hadikhia's.

Q Why is the Courtier a bad idea on an Al-Hadikhia script?
A On D2 everyone will know the Al-Hadikhia is in play.
  At that point the Courtier will make the Al-Had drunk,
  which is completely unbluffable by the evil team.
  Thus the Courtier will always be confirmed and get to wipe out the Al-Hadikhia for three nights.

Q What happens when the Exorcist picks the Al-Hadikhia?
A The Al-Hadikhia does not get to pick and there are no announcements.
  This would look no different to the Al-Hadikhia being drunk or poisoned, so the town would be unsure of the cause.

Q If the only Al-Hadikhia pick who chooses death is the unspent Fool, who dies?
A The Fool initially survives due to her ability, then as all three are alive, all die in the order that they were picked.
  As this would now be the Fool's second death, she is killed outright. This all assumes no other sources of protection.

  Arguably the unspent Fool should always say no to dying...

Q Does the Gambler know if they died to their own ability if they are resurrected the same night by the Al-Hadikhia?
A The Gambler never knows whether they have died to their own ability.
  So, they could gamble incorrectly and die,
  then be chosen by the Al-Hadikhia and choose live
  and therefore be resurrected and would not know whether they gambled correctly or not as the net effect is the same.

Q If one of the Al-Hadikhia's targets is the unpicked Goon, what happens?
A The Al-Hadikhia is drunk immediately, so there are no announcements or waking of any of the targets, none of whom can die to the Demon tonight.

Q If the evil Goon is resurrected by the Al-Hadikhia, are they still evil?
A Yes.  Resurrection does not change alignment.

Q What happens if the grandchild and the Grandmother are both in the same Al-Hadikhia selection?
A If the grandchild dies to the Al-Hadikhia,
  the Grandmother dies too,
  but they can then be resurrected in the same night and therefore not know if their ability worked or not.

  If the grandchild is the first Al-Hadikhia pick and chooses to die, also killing the Grandmother,
  and the Grandmother is the second pick and chooses to live so coming back to life,
  they should probably be given the same grandchild,
  as a new grandchild would give them too much confirmation.

Q The Al-Hadikhia picks the Innkeeper and the two Innkeeper targets.
  Who dies if all three choose to live?
A The Al-Had visits three players in an order over the night phase, offering them the choice to live or die.
  Any player picking die, dies instantly.
  Once all three are visited, a check is performed: are all three players alive?
  If they are all alive then
  they are killed in the order that the Al-Had picked.

  So in this example if the Innkeeper was picked first, all three would die.
  If the Innkeeper was not the first choice, then the protected player(s) chosen beforehand would stay alive.

Q Could the Al-Hadikhia be drunk if they are picked by the Innkeeper or the Sailor?
A Yes, but don't.

  Without other reasons for the Al-Hadikhia to be blocked
  it is likely that town will narrow the Demon candidates down to the Innkeeper / Sailor pick(s) ...

Q If the Klutz / Moonchild chooses death when woken for the Al-Hadikhia, when do they make their pick?
A At the start of the next day.

  Although the player might choose death on being woken for their Al-Hadikhia choice,
  she does not actually know if she died until it is announced in the morning as she could be protected by another character,
  so her pick happens publicly in the morning.

Q How does the Lunatic who believes that they are the Al-Hadikhia work?
A The Demon learns who the Lunatic is and who they pick each night.

  Unless the actual Demon is the Al-Had,
  the Lunatic will quickly realise who they really are when there are no night announcements,
  which are a mechanical effect caused by the Al-Hadikhia's ability,
  and the Lunatic who saw the Al-Had token does not actually have the Al-Had's ability.

Q What is the Al-Hadikhia jinx with the Mastermind?
A If the Al-Hadikhia dies by execution, and the Mastermind is alive, the Al-Hadikhia chooses three good players tonight: if all three choose to live, evil wins. Otherwise, good wins.

Q How does the Al-Hadikhia targeting the Mayor work?
A The Mayor can bounce an Al-Hadikhia kill from themself to another player if they choose to die.
  If all three picks are then still alive so all three must die, the Mayor can again bounce the kill.

  As an extreme example:
  # the Mayor and players A and B are chosen by the Al-Hadikhia and announced to town,
  # only the Mayor says die and their kill bounces to C, who dies,
  # all three picks are alive so all should die, and the Mayor bounces again to D,
  # so players A, B, C and D die in the night despite only the Mayor, A and B being announced as Al-Hadikhia targets.

  If the ST were to do this though it would all but hard-confirm the Mayor and the Al-Hadikhia cannot easily stop them surviving to final three, but it is a fun interaction!

Q Does the Monk stop a player from being chosen by the Al-Hadikhia?
A No, they are still picked and must make a choice.

Q How does the Pit-Hag interact with the Al-Hadikhia?
A If the Pit-Hag creates a new Demon, and one of the two is the Al-Hadikhia who is not immediately killed before they awake,
  then the Al-Hadikhia can be woken and their choices taken, announced and processed,
  but the ST can choose to kill or protect anyone throughout the process using the Pit-Hag ability.
  
  It is generally a good idea to kill the Al-Hadikhia if they or a second Demon in an Al-Hadikhia game are created by the Pit-Hag
  as otherwise they can resurrect the other Demon relatively easily and have two living evil Demons.

Q If the Pit-Hag turns the Demon into the Al-Hadikhia, deaths are arbitrary, but should the ST wake the Al-Hadikhia and her targets?
A Deaths are arbitrary until the end of the night giving the ST a lot of freedom since Demons wake later than the Pit-Hag,
  but if the Al-Hadikhia is alive, sober and healthy
  then the waking up and announcing stuff is not optional: it must happen.

  This potentially already informs good players that the Demon has changed,
  so the ST might choose not to interfere with anything and ignore the option for arbitrary deaths.

Q If the Poppy Grower dies in an Al-Hadikhia game, when should the evil team learn each other?
A If the PG is killed by the Al-Hadikhia, the evil team learn each other immediately.
  Generally, if this is not going to affect the other Al-Hadikhia choices,
  then it is safe to wait until after the other choices to tell the evil players,
  but if a Minion or, worryingly, two, have been picked by the Al-Hadikhia along with the Poppy Grower,
  then the ST should tell them before waking them for their Al-Hadikhia choice as it will affect their decision.

Q If the Al-Hadikhia dies and the Scarlet Woman becomes the new Al-Hadikhia, could the new Al-Had resurrect the old Al-Had with their ability?
A Yes, then as per the jinx between the SW and the Al-Had, the ex-SW would become the SW again, thus preventing two alive Demons.

Q What happens when the Al-Hadikhia targets the player favoured by the Storm Catcher?
A The storm caught player can be picked by the Al-Hadikhia but cannot die.
  This can be a way to force a good player who does not want to die to do so,
  because it reduces the field to the storm caught player and two characters who do not want to die,
  one of whom is going to have to choose to do so or both of them will instead.

Q When does the Sweetheart make a player drunk if they are killed by the Al-Hadikhia?
A As soon as the Sweetheart dies.
  So they could make a character drunk that dies later within the Al-Hadikhia choices or even the Al-Hadikhia herself, 
  immediately ending har activation at that moment but
  this is a probably a bad idea as it confirms the Sweetheart as good as well as wiping out the Demon ability.

Q What happens when the Tinker is one of the Al-Hadikhia's picks?
A The Tinker can choose to live for their Al-Hadikhia choice,
  then die before the other players have chosen to live or die,
  ensuring that one of the three is dead and preventing an "all three die" situation.

  The ST probably would not do this because:
  * either the Tinker will generally be happy to say die
  * or it would be harsh on the Al-Hadikhia who was about to get a rare triple kill.

Q What happens if the Widow is resurrected by the Al-Hadikhia?
A The Widow immediately wakes to see the Grimoire and choose a player to be poisoned. 
  This does not have to happen in between the Al-Hadikhia kills,
  but should if their choice of poison could affect what happens when the other players selected by the Al-Hadikhia that night make their choices.
  A good player should also be told that the Widow is in play.


==========
=Alsaahir=
==========
Q If the Alsaahir correctly guesses the evil team, does the game end if both of the Twins are alive?
A No.

  Good cannot win if both Twins are alive,
  even when the Alsaahir triggers their win condition.
  This counts as the Alsaahir ability functioning abnormally to the Mathematician.

Q Can the Recluse or the Spy misregister to the Alsaahir?
A Yes, but don't, because it will not be fun for those involved.

Q Can the Alsaahir guess every player as a combination of Minions and Demons and still trigger their win condition?
A No, their guess must be fully correct with no non-Minions or Demons guessed within it.


==========
=Amnesiac=
==========
Q The Amnesiac publicly takes an action that has nothing to do with their ability.  How does the ST respond?
A ST choice.

  The ST could facilitate the action or respond that they do not have the ability to do that.

Q Does the Amnesiac's ability act as soon as it can, or after they discover their ability?
A Their ability is always working.
  Technically they could have an ability that does not do anything unless or until the Amne guesses their ability fully but that is unlikely to be fun.

Q Can the Amnesiac keep guessing their ability after getting a bingo, possibly to check for Vortox, poison or drunkenness?
A Nothing stops them.

Q How does the Amnesiac learn how close their guess is to their actual ability?
A RAW the ST should use the standard four point scale: cold, warm, hot and bingo.

  While the standard scale is recommended, the ST is free to choose how to present the info.
  Intermediate points (cool, lukewarm, very hot, ...) can be added
  or they could even use a scale of 1 to 100 instead.

  The ST should explain what scale they use to the Amnesiac or anyone bluffing Amnesiac.


============
=Apprentice=
============
Q How does the Apprentice Fool work?
A The first time they would be exiled, they are not.

Q Does the Apprentice Pit-Hag change Minion ability if they create the Pit-Hag?
A No, the Apprentice is allowed to have the ability of an in play character,
  unlike the Alchemist who, if possible, must have an out of play Minion ability.

Q Does the Apprentice Psychopath play roshambo if they are exiled?
A No, an exile is not an execution.

Q Can the Apprentice Psychopath kill during a call for their exile?
A Yes, if nominations have not been opened.

Q Can the Apprentice Spy be executed if she is the first to nominate the Virgin?
A Yes, which would immediately out them as evil.

Q How does an Apprentice Vizier work?
A They act just like a regular one, including the fact they do not die if exiled.

Q How does the Apprentice work?
A She will get the ability of a Townsfolk (if good) or a Minion (if evil).

  Everyone will know that the player is a Traveller and that they are the Apprentice, but will not know her alignment or what ability she has,
  otherwise an evil Apprentice would just get instantly exiled.

Q Does the Apprentice retain an "even if dead" ability if they travel out of the game?
A No, travelling out of the game completely removes the player and their ability from the game.


========
=Artist=
========
Q If a drunk or poisoned ability gainer (Cannibal / Philosopher / Pixie) believes that via their ability they have the Artist ability 
  what should the ST say when they ask an Artist question?
A If they are still drunk or poisoned then, depending on game state, either give an arbitrary answer, the usual option, or tell them that they do not have that ability,
  a legal option but one that does not often make sense to take.

  If they were only drunk or poisoned at the time they 'gained' the ability,
  but are currently sober and healthy as they try to use it,
  then the ST would have no option but to inform them that they do not have that ability.

Q Can the Artist ask the question 'does this player see the Grimoire with their ability?' to determine who is the Spy?
A Yes, as long as the ST is fine with creative Artist questions designed to bypass misregistration.

Q Can the Artist ask if a player is the Demon?
A Yes.
  The Artist can ask any question as long as it can be answered yes or no.

Q Can the Artist ask the ST "does this player have a red token"?
A Yes.

  The Artist is allowed to ask any question that can be answered with a yes or no
  and this may be their way of bypassing the misregistration (Recluse / Spy) to find out their alignment.
  Arguably the spirit of the Artist is to be creative, to a point, with their questions,
  but ultimately it is up to the ST what they believe is allowable for the Artist to ask.


==========
=Assassin=
==========
Q Does the Fool die if targeted by the Assassin?
A Yes. The Fool ability counts as something that would prevent them from dying, so the Assassin ignores it and actually kills them. 

Q Can the Assassin kill the Lleech / alive Zombuul?
A Yes, as can the Apprentice Assassin or the Alchemist Assassin, potentially instantly ending the game.

Q Does the Lycanthrope stop an Assassin kill?
A No.  The Assassin can still kill if the Lycanthrope hits a good player.

  Generally, the Assassin bypasses all protection, except perhaps the Storm Catcher.

Q Can the Mayor bounce the Assassin kill?
A Yes, causing another player to die, but the Mayor still dies because of the Assassin ability to override all protections.

  The sequence of events:
  # The Assassin chooses the Mayor;
  # The first part of the Assassin's ability triggers: "Once per game, at night*, choose a player: they die";
  # The Mayor's ability notes that the Mayor is about to die, so bounces the kill to another player who dies instead;
  # As the Mayor is still alive the second part of the Assassin's ability, "even if for some reason they could not", triggers to kill the Mayor.

  Since the result is a double kill it should probably be used sparingly.
  A potential compromise that allows both abilities to benefit their sides is to bounce the kill to the Assassin.

Q Does the Assassin's kill still go through on a night of arbitrary deaths due to the Pit-Hag?
A Yes, as the Assassin's kill beats any other ability.

Q Can the Assassin kill the storm caught Townsfolk?
A RAW there is no definitive answer,
  so the ST can rule whichever is more interesting for the script.
  Most of the time, that is likely to be Storm Catcher.

  The Storm Catcher's ability and the Assassin ability are at odds with one another
  and while fabled characters do not inherently trump other characters,
  a common view is that by intention the Storm Catcher does trump the Assassin.

Q What happens when the Assassin attacks a dead player?
A Nothing.

  A dead player cannot die again as they are already dead,
  and the Assassin's ability is specifically about bypassing protection, not that a player dies no matter what.


=========
=Atheist=
=========
Q In an Atheist game the Alchemist has the Pit-Hag ability.
  If the Alchemist makes good a Demon that the town then executes, does the good team win or must the ST be executed?
A With the Atheist the ST can decide if the good team wins.

Q Can the Devil's Advocate protect the ST if the Atheist is in play?
A ST choice.

  RAW the ST is not a player so is never a valid target for abilities, 
  but in an Atheist game the ST is free to break any rule so can allow it.
  However, as the Atheist only requires the ST's execution not their death, preventing them from dying would not accomplish anything.

Q Does the Engineer in an Atheist game create new evils or just not work?
A The Engineer can only change the characters of existing Demons and Minions (without breaking the rules). 
  In an Atheist game, the ST is reasonably likely to pretend that it has been effective, though, by changing what Demon/Minion abilities the town is hallucinating.

Q Can the Judge / Vizier force the execution of the Storyteller if the Atheist is on the script but out of play.
A Yes.

Q In an Atheist game the ST can break the rules but in the instance of the Lunatic Kazali,
  can their picks be told that they are now Minions, while keeping their alignment as good?
A Yes.

  The only real restriction in an Atheist game is no evil players at setup.
  Arguably it is against the spirit of the Atheist to introduce Minions and Demons after setup,
  regardless of if they are good or not.
  But ultimately what is acceptable in an Atheist game is up to the ST and their group.
  
Q Can the Philosopher choose the Atheist?
A Yes.

  Evil players are not removed from the game as that part of the Atheist's ability is a setup ability, so it has no effect if entering play mid game.
  Good can now win the game be executing the ST.
  However, the ST can now do whatever they want, which typically will also include them uncreating the Atheist.

Q If the Philosopher chooses the Atheist in a game that started with the Mastermind,
  and the ST then dies,
  could the ST "break the rules" making themself be considered the Demon?
A If the ST allowed the Philo-Atheist ability to remain in play, the ST can do whatever they want.

Q Can drunking the Atheist with the Puzzlemaster mean evil roles can be included in the game?
A No. 

  The Atheist has a setup ability, the Puzzlemaster does not,
  so no one is Puzzlemaster-drunk until after the tokens go out.

  The ST can make the Atheist _the_ Drunk or the Marionette,
  otherwise when the Atheist is in the bag there must be no evil characters.

Q Can the Steward see the ST if the Atheist is on the script?
A No, since the ST is not a player,
  unless the Atheist is in game in which case the ST is allowed to break the rules and so the ST can be shown.

Q Does the Atheist prevent new evil characters from being created after the game has begun?
A No, in an Atheist game the ST can break all rules and turn people evil.
  However, this is usually not fun for the players and not advised; keep all players good and give fake information that they need to "solve" as intended.

----------------------combine?
Q If the Atheist is made drunk (Courtier / Innkeeper / Sailor / ...) does good immediately win?
A Yes, since good win's condition of no living Demon in play is triggered.
  This assumes that the ST does not break the rules to prevent the Atheist from becoming drunk.

Q Who wins if the Atheist was drunk when the ST was executed?
A If the Atheist was drunk and there is no Demon in play then good would already have won.
  If there is a Demon in play then evil would win.

  Although, if there is no evil team usually the ST will break the rules to keep the Atheist sober and not end the game by them being drunk.
---------------------------------------------

Q Can there be an Atheist game without anyone being shown the Atheist token?
A Atheist "can" questions are almost certainly answerable with a "yes." Whether the ST should or not is debatable.
  So technically the ST can break the rules to do that, but probably should not.

Q Does a nominated ST get a defence? 
  In a non-Atheist game (with it on the script of course) could the ST use game state information in their defence?
  (e.g. they think claiming the nominating player is evil helps balance)
A If they want one, sure.
  They could say something funny like "ok" or "nooooo pleeeeaaaase I'm innoceeeeent"
  They would have to do that every time they were nominated to not give anything away though, probably too hard to balance and gives away too much info.
  "Go ahead, lose the game" is also an option.

Q If the Atheist is not on the script, can the Storyteller be executed?
A No. Executing the ST is only allowed when the Atheist is on the script, otherwise even nominating the ST is not allowed.

Q At what point does the game end in an Atheist game?
A Win conditions in an Atheist game are either the ST is executed or there are two players left alive.
  Though technically the ST can break either of those rules to continue the game, they probably should not, unless simulating something like a Mastermind day or the once dead Zombuul.

Q Can I do ... in an Atheist game?
A The nature of an Atheist game is that the ST can break any rule.
  The only think not allowed are any evil characters.


============
=Balloonist=
============
Q Is it legal to have the Balloonist in play when the Kazali turns all the Outsiders into Minions?
A Yes, the Kazali's [setup ability] means the setup is legal whatever the Outsider count.

Q As per the jinx, the Marionette who believes that they are the Balloonist might still add an extra Outsider to the game.
  Might the Drunk who believes that they are the Ballonist add an extra Outsider?
A No.

  The reason for the jinx between the Marionette and the Balloonist is because it is not possible to know who will neighbour the Demon,
  and therefore what character will be replaced by the Marionette,
  so the Balloonist setup [+0 or +1 Outsider] must happen as the token distribution is being decided upon.
  The Drunk in contrast could be decided before tokens are distributed.

Q The Balloonist saw the Minion that the Imp starpassed to. Can they later see the same Minion as the Demon?
A They can, or they can be shown the dead Imp.

Q Is it legal to have the Balloonist in a Legion game with no Outsiders?
A Yes.

Q Can a single Legion player be shown to the Balloonist twice, once as a Minion and once as a Demon?
A Yes.

Q Can the Balloonist learn two Legion players in two consecutive nights?
A Yes.

  While Legion registers as both a Minion and a Demon at the same time,
  most abilities only see them as one type at a time.
  So the Balloonist can see the first Legion as one type, and the second as the other type.

Q Could a Minion holding Lil' Monsta be shown twice to the Balloonist - once as a Minion and once as a Demon?
A Yes.

Q What happens when the Philosopher chooses Balloonist in a zero Outsider game?
A The Philo gains the Balloonist ability but the [setup effect] is skipped so there is no possibility of an Outsider being added in this way. 

Q Could the Balloonist see the ST as a Minion if they gain a Minion ability via the Plague Doctor?
A No, the ST is not a Minion.

Q Can a preached Minion still be seen by the Balloonist?
A Yes, a preached Minion is still a Minion and can be seen as such by the Balloonist.

Q Could the Balloonist be shown the Recluse multiple times?
A Yes. The Recluse can register to the Balloonist, as an Outsider, a Minion and the Demon.

Q Could the Balloonist be shown the Spy multiple times?
A Yes. The Spy can register to the Balloonist, as a Townsfolk, an Outsider and a Minion.

  If the Spy ever holds Lil' Monsta then they could register as the Demon as well!

Q Can the Balloonist learn the name of a Traveller?
A No, unless they are holding Lil' Monsta or they are an Apprentice Spy.

--Q If the drunk or poisoned Balloonist is shown a Minion as a Townsfolk ping
--  then on the following night they are sober and healthy,
--  is the Townsfolk reminder token next to the Minion still valid or must it be replaced with their Minion reminder token?
--A The Balloonist's reminder tokens are never reevaluated; once they are placed in the Grimoire they are used.
--  In this example the Townsfolk reminder token is used up,
--  and while the Balloonist is sober and healthy they cannot be shown any more Townsfolk.
--  The Minion player that was shown could be shown again as the Minion if the ST wanted.

Q What happens if the Balloonist dies and is revived (Al-Hadikhia / Professor / Shabaloth / ...)?
A When the Balloonist originally died their reminder token would have been removed from the Grimoire,
  so they are treated as a fresh incarnation of the Balloonist
  meaning that they can be shown any player on their first night after they are revived.

Q Can the Balloonist get pings on dead players?
A Yes.

Q How is the Balloonist affected when the previously shown player changes character type (Barber / Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / Snake Charmer / Summoner)?
A What the Balloonist sees next is based off of what character type was seen previously,
  not on what character type the previously seen player has now.

  So if the ST wanted to they could show the same player twice in a row if they changed character type in between.


=========
=Banshee=
=========
Q Could the dead and awakened Banshee trigger the Virgin?
A Yes.

  The Banshee is then immediately executed, ending the day.

Q Can there be multiple active Banshee abilities in a game?
A Yes, if the Demon kills the Banshee and/or any ability gainer (Apprentice / Cannibal / Philosopher / Pixie) with the Banshee ability.
  Each would be announced separately at night as the Banshee and every day, if sober and healthy, can nominate twice and cast up to two votes on each nomination.

Q Does the Banshee lose their on death ability to nominate and vote twice if they are resurrected/regurgitated (Al-Hadikhia / Professor / Shabaloth)?
A Yes.  They are a new instance of the Banshee so all the "from now on" effects are removed.

Q When does the Banshee announcement go out?
A In the night when the Demon kills them.

Q What happens when the dead Banshee who successfully gains their ability becomes drunk or poisoned?
A With no functioning Banshee ability, a player cannot nominate while dead and if they vote will spend their only ghost vote.

  While the Banshee is not informed that their ability is not functioning,
  they will deduce that they must be drunk or poisoned when:
  * they attempt to nominate a player and are informed that they cannot nominate because they are dead;
  * they vote on a nomination and their only ghost vote is taken away.

  Once the Banshee is sober and healthy their ability functions as normal.

Q If the Banshee dies at night while drunk or poisoned what happens?
A They do not gain their ability,
  they are not announcecd
  and just like a regular dead player they cannot nominate
  and have one ghost vote for the rest of the game.

  The Banshee activation is not about being dead, it is about being killed.
  As they were drunk or poisoned at the time of their death, their ability does not activate.

  This is in contract to how activated Banshee becoming drunk or poisoned is run:
  they lose their ghost vote if they vote and cannot nominate,
  but they do get their votes and nominations back when they become sober and healthy.


========
=Barber=
========
Q If the dead Damsel gets swapped in to a living player from the Barber,
  is it random like it is for the Pit-Hag?
A No.

Q Can the Barber change the Good Twin, if the Demon swaps one of the Twins? 
A If the Demon chooses to Barber swap the Good Twin player, then they are still the Good Twin, and the Evil Twin gets updated about what character they are now.
  If the Demon chooses to Barber swap the Evil Twin, then there will be a new ET pair who will get woken that night to learn each other.

Q If there are multiple instances of a character (Farmer / Village Idiot / ...) and they are Barber swapped,
  are those players woken and informed?
A No, players only learn if their character changes and their character did not change.

  Amusingly, a 'you think you are' character (Drunk / Lunatic) who actually becomes the character that they saw is informed,
  because that is a character change.

Q The Barber dies in a Legion game. The ST wakes one Legion and they swap themself with another Legion. 
  Since neither player changed roles, does the ST tell the other Legion?
A The Demon cannot use the Barber to swap with a second Demon.

Q Can the former Scarlet Woman who is now the Demon, use the Barber to swap the previous Demon with a living player?
A No, the Barber's ability explicitly disallows choosing another Demon.

Q Is the Soldier safe when the Demon uses the Barber swap on them?
A No.

Q What happens when the Barber dies but there is no Demon yet in a Summoner game?
A Nothing.

Q The Barber is killed. Can alignment be changed, say by the Demon swapping herself?
A Barber swaps do not change alignment, only character.

Q Could the Barber be swapped with a living player after they die and then the new Barber could get killed to trigger the swap again, repeatedly?
A Yes.

Q Does the Barber interrupt multi-kill Demons (Al-Hadikhia / Po / Shabaloth)?
A Yes.  If the Barber is killed by the Demon, the Demon is woken and offered the swap.
  If the Demon swaps herself then the rest of her picks are skipped: no one dies / wakes to choose life or death.

Q Does Barber swapping two players make new instances of these characters, refreshing their abilities?
A Yes.

Q Why is "not another Demon" clarified on the Barber's ability?
A If there is a dead Fang Gu, and that clause did not exist, a living Fang Gu could swap the dead Fang Gu with a Minion and get two living evil Fang Gus.
  This could also happen with the Pit-Hag creating multiple Demons.

  If the Demon attempts to use the Barber ability on another Demon, accidentally or otherwise, the ST should prompt the Demon to choose again.

Q Can the current Demon kill the Barber and swap a dead Demon with a Minion, leading to two alive Demons?  Can the ST kill one of them and have kills be arbitrary?
A The Barber's ability specifies that Demons cannot choose other Demons with the Barber ability.
  This extra Barber rule is to prevent two alive Demons.
  The ST also cannot arbitrarily kill anyone with the Barber ability, only with the Pit-Hag ability when a new Demon is created.

Q What happens when the Barber dies but there is no living Demon?
A "The Demon" may be a dead Demon when there are no alive Demons,
  so a dead Demon makes the swap.

  They can use the swap to create a living Demon but only by swapping themself with another living player;
  they cannot revive another Demon as the Barber ability forbids choosing another Demon.

Q What happens when the Barber dies and there are multiple living Demons (Legion / Riot / ...)?
A The ST picks a living Demon to make the Barber swap.

Q The Barber is executed.  That night the starting Fang Gu targets a player, who becomes an Outsider after the Barber swap is run.
  Does the Fang Gu's target die as an Outsider or become a new Fang Gu?
A They die as an Outsider.

  This situation can arise if the ST decides, as is their right, to run the Barber at their turn in the night order.
  Other STs prefer to run the Barber at the first opportunity, so after the Barber is executed,
  the Demon is immediately offered the swap at the start of the night,
  avoiding this situation completely.

Q Does the Barber's ability trigger as soon as they die?
A Yes, although some STs run the swap at the Barber's spot in the night order.

  It is meant to be run as a trigger ability, the trigger being the Barber's death,
  meaning it should happen straight after the Barber dies during the night,
  or at the start of the night if the Barber died during the day.

  It is the ST's choice how they prefer to run the Barber swap,
  which they should clarify with their players when asked
  as this might matter if the Demon swaps players in the middle of the night!

Q If the Barber is executed and the Demon swaps the now dead Barber with an alive Townsfolk,
  can the Demon then kill the new Barber tomorrow on a later night to trigger another swap? 
A Yes, which can then be repeated as many times as the Demon wished,
  but this is a risky strategy as it typically confirms good players with one another.

Q What happens if a dead player is changed (Pit-Hag) into the Barber?
A Nothing.

  In order for a Barber swap to occur a player must _die_ while having a sober and healthy Barber ability.
  A dead player cannot die so any ability that triggers on death cannot trigger.
  Consequently the Demon is not notified and cannot swap any players.


=========
=Barista=
=========
Q If the Barista makes the Amnesiac act twice, do they get to guess their ability twice?
A That would make sense, plus their Amne-ability functions twice.

Q How does the Barista doubled Balloonist work?
A The Balloonist learns two players that are a different type than the player learned the previous night,
  but who are not necessarily of the same type themselves.
  Tomorrow night they learn a player that is a different type than both of the players they learned tonight.

Q How does the Barista doubled Banshee work?
A Unclear.
  Best guess is that they can nominate four times but can still only vote twice per nomination.

Q How does the Barista doubled Barber work?
A The Demon is woken to make a swap, goes to sleep, then immediately wakes again to make a second swap.
  If the Demon changes in between swaps, then it is the new Demon making the second swap.

Q How does the Barista doubled Boomdandy work?
A If the Boomdandy is Barista-doubled on a day they are not executed, nothing happens.

  On a day they are executed, they try to kill N (number of total players) minus 3,
  then try to kill N minus 3 players again (these do not need to be the same players),
  then when the pointing minute is complete, the player with the most pointing at them dies twice (if applicable).
  Note this means that the Barista doubled Boomdandy can kill the unused Fool before the pointing starts
  or the living Zombuul/unused Fool can be killed twice to end the game with the pointing.

Q How does a Barista doubled Bounty Hunter work?
A They could learn two evil players in one night.
  They would learn another player when either of those two players died.
  This means the Bounty Hunter has two instances of their ability from that point on - when either ping dies, they learn a new name. 
  It is usually a good idea to show them the same player after both "client A" and "client B" die, 
  to restore the Bounty Hunter to knowing only a single player at a time from then on.

Q How does the Barista doubled Butcher work?
A Unclear.
  The Butcher is written to act only after the first execution of the day
  so it is up to how the ST interprets this interaction.

  After the first execution the ST could allow the Butcher to:
  * nominate twice, potentially leading to two extra executions;
  * nominate twice and execute the player with the most votes, causing just one extra execution today.

Q How does a Barista doubled Butler work?
A The Butler chooses two masters and can only vote if both raise their hands.

Q An evil player is executed and the Cannibal is poisoned,
  but if they somehow become healthy that night (Amnesiac / Barista / ...)
  do they gain the ability of the executed evil player?
A Yes, use cautiously.

  A Barista'd Cannibal who eats the Spy is interesting.
  A Barista'd Cannibal who eats the Widow is completely hilarious.
  The ST should probably avoid giving a Barista bonus to the Cannibal.

Q What does a Barista doubled Damsel do?
A If the Damsel guess has already been used,
  then the Minions may attempt one more guess today.
  If the guess has not already been used,
  then they may attempt two guesses today.

  However, as it is the Damsel that is told about the Barista doubling,
  the Minions will be unaware of the extra guess unless the Damsel announced it.

Q What does a Barista 1 do to the Drunk / Marionette?
A If they believe that they have an info ability then
  the Barista ability specifies that they must receive true info.

  If they believe that they have a mechanical ability then there is no effect; their ability does not do anything.

Q What effect does Barista doubling the Fearmonger have?
A The Fearmonger can pick two players that night and nominating and executing either of them the following day will end the game.

  This could potentially result in two announcements of the Fearmonger selecting new players,
  so the Fearmonger will want to be careful in this situation not to reveal the Barista is evil and the Fearmonger has two selections that night.

Q How does the Barista doubled Fool work?
A If they still have their ability, then they can die three times today, otherwise they can die twice.

Q What effect does a Barista 1 have on the Fortune Teller?
A The FT ignores their Red Herring, receiving a 'no'.  As this counts as their ability working abnormally this would trigger the Mathematician.

  Additionally the FT cannot see the Recluse as the Demon.

Q Does Barista doubling the Golem have any effect?
A The Golem is still limited to only nominating once per game, 
  but when they nominate, that player dies twice.
  So the Barista-doubled Golem could kill an unused Fool completely in one nomination.

  If the Golem has already used their one nomination, the Barista has no effect on them.

Q How does a Barista doubled Juggler work?
A The ST would have to decide how they would want that to work,
  but it seems reasonable to run it the same way as a bone collected Juggler is run.

  On their second night, the Juggler would have to be told the same number twice, which seems rather pointless.
  But on a later night, similar to how a bone collected Juggler is run,
  the Juggler who had speculatively juggled the previous night could wake to learn a new number via a Barista 2.

Q How does the Barista doubled Huntsman work?
A If they have yet to guess then they can choose two players in one night, otherwise they can be woken to make another guess.

Q What effect does the Barista have on the King?
A The Barista only has an effect when the dead outnumber the living. Once this is the case, Barista 1 gives the King true info and Barista doubling gives the King two character tokens to see.

Q How does the Barista doubled Lleech work?
A If the Lleech is chosen on N1 then they choose two players, both of whom are poisoned from now on, and both must die in order for the Lleech to die.
  If the Lleech is chosen after N1 then they kill twice.

Q If the Marionette believes that they have an ability that informs another player of their identity
  (Alchemist Cerenovus / Nightwatchman / ...)
  would a Barista 1 cause the chosen player to correctly learn Marionette?
A The chosen player is never woken.

  The Barista cannot change the fact that the Marionette does not have the ability they think they have and so have no effect on the game such as causing other players to wake.

Q How does the Barista doubled Marionette work?
A The Marionette would be deceived that they have two uses of the ability that they think they have.
  If they are Barista doubled N1 then technically the Demon should be told twice about them.

Q What does Barista doubling the Mezepheles do?
A If doubled on the first night, the Mez learns two words and the first good player to say both turns evil.
  
  On any other night, like with any once per game ability that is Barista doubled:
  * if they have already used their ability, that is turned someone evil, they can turn another player turned today by getting them to say the word;
  * if they have not already used it, then they can get two people to turn today.

Q How does the Barista doubled Nightwatchman work?
A Two players can be picked and each is shown the Nightwatchman token.  Each player is told once, not twice.

Q What effect does the Barista have on the Organ Grinder?
A Doubling has no effect.  Barista 1 ensures that they are sober and healthy and always affect voting.

Q How does the N1 Barista doubled Pixie work?
A If the ST really wants to do this then the Pixie is shown two in play Townsfolk who are both marked in the Grimoire.

  It is inherently impossible for a player to be successfully mad about being two different characters at the same time,
  but they can effectively pick which of the two characters to be mad about.
  If sufficiently mad about being that character, they would gain their ability when the applicable player dies.
  If the Pixie were to later switch their madness to the other character,
  and had a suitably convincing reason why they might have been "bluffing" about being the first character,
  then if sufficiently mad about being the second character, they could gain their ability when the applicable player dies.

Q How does the Barista doubled Po work?
A If they charge with their first action then they must choose three players with the second action.
  Alternatively they could kill with their first action and charge with their second so that they get the multi-kill tomorrow.

Q Does a Barista 1 give a preached Minion back their ability?
A No.

Q How does the Barista doubled Psychopath work?
A The Psychopath can kill two people during the day, probably getting the Barista exiled immediately, but still only plays roshambo once if executed.

Q Does a Barista 1 remove the drunkenness due to the Puzzlemaster or cause it to move to another player?
A No, the player would be temporarily sober but the drunkenness stays on the player.

Q Is the effect of a Barista 1 on the Puzzlemaster that they learn the Demon no matter who they guess?
A Yes, which is why the ST should probably not give a Barista 1 to the Puzzlemaster!

Q How does the Barista doubled Puzzlemaster work?
A They can make two guesses that day if they have yet to guess, learning a player for each guess,
  or they can make a second guess if they already have.

Q What does a Barista 1 Savant learn?
A Two true statements.

Q How does the Barista work twice on the Savant?
A The Savant prompts the ST twice, and receives two sets of statements; one true and one false each.
  They do not receive two true statements and then two false.

Q How does the Barista doubled Philosopher work?
A The Barista doubled Philosopher is completely broken so best not to do it.  However:
  * if the Philo has yet to pick an ability, they gain two abilities, and potentially drunk two characters;
  * if they have already used it, then they can gain an additional ability on top of their current one.

  The ability/abilities gained are not doubled.
C https://discord.com/channels/569683781800296501/570048154720796682/1141518631713382510

Q Does the Barista doubled Pit-Hag who uses their first pick to turn themself into something else still get a second use of the Pit-Hag ability?
A No, as they no longer have the Pit-Hag ability.

Q Does the Barista doubled Pit-Hag who with her last pick turns herself into a role that acts after the Pit-Hag, get to use their new role twice too?
A Yes.

Q Can the Barista double the Minion ability the ST gained when the Plague Doctor died?
A No, the ST is not a player.

Q Does the Barista have any effect on the Poppy Grower?
A If the Poppy Grower dies while Barista doubled then Minions and Demons entertainingly learn each other twice.

  A Barista one guarantees the PG would die sober and healthy, so Minions and Demons learn each other,
  and might make the PG believe that they would otherwise have been drunk or poisoned and that the evil team is being helped out.

Q Does the Barista doubled Snake Charmer who hits the Demon get to make two kills as the Demon?
A Yes.

Q What effect does Barista doubling the Vizier have?
A There is no effect.

Q If the Widow is Barista doubled on a later night, how long does their second pick remained poisoned for?
A Until the Widow dies.

Q The Witch is Barista doubled, and curses two players.  If the Barista is exiled or travels away, are both of those players still cursed?
A Yes, the doubling is a one-time effect that cannot be retroactively undone.

Q Can the Barista let the Demon kill twice? 
A Yes.

Q Does Barista 1 have an effect on the Demon?
A Only if they would have otherwise been drunk or poisoned.

Q When a once-per-use character is Barista doubled,
  can they choose to use their ability once to use the extra use and keep their original use?
  e.g. Slayer, Artist, Damsel (!?), ...
A No.

Q With Barista, can the ST choose that a character is sober and healthy, if they were already sober and healthy?
A Yes. That player would then be informed of the Barista choice so they would know for a fact they are sober and healthy, which is still pretty helpful,
  but not for start knowing roles where being sober and healthy now does not help them at all.

Q Do roles that receive info only on N1 benefit from being selected by the Barista on later nights?
A Not a Barista 1 (sober + healthy + true), but a Barista 2 (ability works twice) could give them info again
  as their first night ability will work on a night other than the first.

Q Does the Barista doubling immediately end if the Barber is killed by the doubled Demon or swapped by the doubled Pit-Hag
  (assume the optional rule that Travellers can change type is in play)
  meaning the ST ignores the second kill for the Demon / second swap for the Pit-Hag?
A Yes, any ability that is no longer in play has no effect, and all abilities happen one at a time.


========
=Beggar=
========
Q Can the Beggar learn the Recluse as evil or the Spy as good through misregistration?
A Yes.

Q Does a living Beggar without a vote still count for purposes of majority voting? 
A Yes.

Q When the Beggar receives a vote token, what are they told about the giver?
A Just their alignment.

Q Does the Beggar start with a vote token?
A No.

  But they do get one when they die as being dead they lose their ability and no longer need to get other players' vote tokens.

Q Can dead players give other players their vote token?
A No, unless the other player is the Beggar whose ability makes use of other players' vote tokens.

Q What happens to their unspent voting tokens after the Beggar is exiled?
A They are gone from the game.


========
=Bishop=
========
Q How does the interaction between Judge and Bishop work?
  If the ST does not nominate a Bishop-opposed player first and the Judge ends it, then the day ends without the ST nominating an opposed player.
A The Judge's ability wins out in that case. The day just ends without the ST nominating an opposing player.
  The players can account for the fact that the Judge may have interrupted a day's worth of alignment information.

Q Can the ST call for the exile of a Traveller when the Bishop is in play?
A No.


========
=Boffin=
========
Q What happens when the Boffin give the Demon the Banshee ability?
A If the Demon with the Banshee ability dies,
  they have an active Banshee ability for as long as the Boffin is alive.

Q Can the Demon become good if the Boffin grants them an alignment changing ability?
A No, since these abilities (Cult Leader / Goon) are jinxed such that they can never cause the Demon to become good.

Q The Demon has the Evil Twin ability, gained via the Alchemist ability given to them by their Boffin.
  What character are they seen as by their Good Twin?
A RAW Demon, but RAI they should probably be seen as the Evil Twin.

Q What happens when the Boffin grants the Demon the Magician's ability?
A The Demon learns themself as a Minion while the Minions learn the Demon twice.

  This could be considered a waste of a Minion's ability and an unhelpful Alchemist Boffin ability.

Q How does the Boffin granting the Poppy Grower ability work?
A If the Demon gains the Poppy Grower ability then the evil team does not learn each other until the Demon dies,
  which could make sense in a game with the Imp, the Fang Gu or the Scarlet Woman.

  Should the Boffin die first then the evil team will never learn each other,
  which makes it a great ability for the Alchemist Boffin to have.

Q Can the Recluse get an ability from the Boffin?
A Yes.

  But this means that the Demon does not get an ability, which is not a good use of a Minion, so probably should not be done.
  It would make more sense to empower the Recluse in this way when the Alchemist has the Boffin abiility.

Q Can the Boffin grant the Demon the Village Idiot ability?
A Yes, assuming that, as per the jinx, there is a spare token.

  Note that the Demon having the VI ability has no impact on which VI is drunk,
  since having the ability does not make the Demon the VI.
  Therefore:
  * the Demon can never be made drunk with the VI ability;
  * in a game with one regular VI, that VI is sober.

Q If a new Demon is created (Barber / Fang Gu / Imp / Pit-Hag / Scarlet Woman / Snake Charmer) does the new Demon gain an ability from the Boffin?
A Yes, unless the old Demon has an ability that persists after death (Banshee / Puzzlemaster / Sweetheart).

  The new ability can be different to the previous Demon's ability.


================
=Bone Collector=
================
Q The Artist is dead. The Bone Collector targets the Artist at night. Later that same night the BC is poisoned / becomes drunk. 
  The Artist tries to use their power the next day. Does it work?
A No; the BC is the only reason the Artist would be able to use their ability while dead and they are poisoned, so their ability is not functioning.

Q If the Cannibal is executed and then bone collected the following night, do they gain the Cannibal ability?
A Yes.

Q If the Bone Collector picks the Drunk or the Marionette, what happens?
A They get another day/night of the ability that they think they have.

Q Can the ST pretend that the Drunk was not bone collected if the Bone Collector chose them?
A Yes, but don't.

  The ST should pretend that Drunk has the ability they think they have again until dusk.

Q Can the dead Fang Gu jump if they are picked by the Bone Collector and choose to attack an Outsider with the one global jump not yet used?
A Yes.

  Crucially the Bone Collector allows a character back their ability as if they were still alive,
  thus the Fang Gu is treated as being able to die, which is one of the requirements for jumping,
  so the jump is allowed.

Q What effect does bone collecting the Sailor have?
A Tonight the Sailor picks another player and either the Sailor or their pick is drunk until the following dusk.
  However, no matter who is made drunk the Sailor cannot die because the dead cannot die again.

Q Does the Bone Collector give the Slayer another use of their ability?
A Yes.

Q Does a bone collected Snake Charmer picking the Demon instantly lose the game for evil?
A Yes, unless there is a reason for the game to continue:
--  * the Demon is the Lleech in which case the former SC is now the new Lleech who picks a new host, and makes a kill;
  * the Twins are both alive;
  * there is another living Demon.

Q If the Undertaker is executed and then bone collected the following night, do they see themself?
A Yes.

Q Can the Bone Collector ability only be used once or every night?
A It is a once per game ability.

Q Does the ST inform a player that they have been chosen by the Bone Collector?
A No.  But they can probably infer this when their ability works again.

Q Does the bone collected Klutz or Moonchild have to make a second pick?
A No.

  The Klutz and Moonchild abilities trigger when the corresponding player learns that they have died.
  As the player already knew that they were dead, and bone collection would have no effect on their knowledge of this,
  they would not need to pick again.

Q If the bone collected player swaps character (Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag) in the night, are they still bone collected?
A Yes.

Q Does the Bone Collector allow characters another use of a single use ability?
A Yes.

  The Bone Collector chooses a dead player who gets to use their ability.
  Any "you start knowing", "on your first day" and once per game abilities can be used again, even if they had already been used, until dusk falls.


===========
=Boomdandy=
===========
Q Could the Acrobat that survives when the Boomdandy explode die if any of their surviving neighbours is drunk or poisoned?
A No, the Acrobat ability is only checked at night, so they would not die until that night.

Q After the Boomdandy is triggered can the Alsaahir that survives still make their guess, in the post-execution minute? 
A Yes.

Q Can the Apprentice have the Boomdandy ability?
A The Apprentice should not be given the Boomdandy ability, as it does not do anything on exile.

Q After the Boomdandy is triggered can the Artist still ask the ST their question, in the post-execution minute?
A Yes, but this does not extend the time limit.

Q Can the Butcher still nominate after the Boomdandy is executed?
A Yes.  This is usually the only way the good team can save themselves from an accidental tie in the Boomdandy pointing.
  However, this requires there to have been some other reason for more than three players to be alive after the Boomdandy kills
  as ordinarily if there was a Butcher and two others left alive, the game would end with an evil win.

Q After the Boomdandy triggers, can the Cult Leader call for a cult?
A Yes, but don't allow it.

  RAW the Cult Leader can call for a cult in the one minute time if they are still alive and did not call for a cult earlier in the day,
  but this should be disallowed as it is either going to go over the time limit or take up a disproportionate amount of the time limit which is intended for discussion.

Q Can the Deviant die when the Boomdandy explodes?
A Yes as it is not an exile.

Q Is a player protected by the Devil's Advocate safe from dying when the Boomdandy explodes?
A No. The DA protects players from execution, and Boomdandy deaths are not due to execution.

Q Does the Boomdandy still trigger if they are executed but do not die (Devil's Advocate protection)?
A Yes. As this hard-confirms them as the Boomdandy, it is a good idea for the Boomdandy to die in their explosion.

Q Is the Doomsayer still active in the minute after the Boomdandy explodes?
A The only time a player can doomsay during the Boomdandy minute is if there are more than three players left alive for whatever reason
  as in all other cases there will only be three players living and therefore the Doomsayer has no ability.

Q After the Boomdandy is triggered can the Fisherman still get their advice within the post-execution minute?
A Yes, but this does not extend the time limit.

Q Can the unspent Fool die to the Boomdandy?
A The Fool cannot be killed twice by the Boomdandy's boom,
  so if their ability is unused then:
  * if they are 'killed' by the boom then they will survive to a potential final four, where they will die if they are the player with the most players pointing at them;
  * if they survive untouched to the final, probable, three then if they are the player with the most players pointing at they do not die and their ability is used.

Q Can the Gangster still kill in the minute after the Boomdandy explodes?
A Yes.
  However, this requires there to have been some other reason for more than three players to be alive after the Boomdandy kills
  as ordinarily if there was a Gangster and two others left alive, the game would end with an evil win.

Q If the Goblin player publicly claims Goblin and dies when the Boomdandy explodes, is that an evil win?
A No. The Goblin needs to be executed, and Boomdandy deaths are not due to execution.

Q Can the Gossip still gossip if they have not already done so that day, after the Boomdandy triggers?
A Yes, but this is probably pointless and not advised.

Q What happens when the Klutz dies to the Boomdandy?
A At whatever point the Klutz is declared dead, the Klutz should interject to choose an alive (at that point) player.

Q If the Boomdandy explodes in a Leviathan game, do the deaths count towards the Leviathan's execution count?
A No, as Boomdandy deaths are not due to execution.

Q What happens when the Boomdandy holding Lil' Monsta explodes?
A The game ends, because after killing down to three the Demon is dead. Unless:
  * the Demon can jump to the Scarlet Woman
  * the Evil Twin is alive, in which case there can be a final three consisting of the Twins and one non-Demon player
  * the Mastermind keeps the game going
  
  When killing down to the final three, all deaths are caused by the Demon, so all Demon-death abilities are relevant (Grandmother / Soldier / ...)

Q If the Boomdandy explodes in a Lleech game, 
  the host must remain but does the Lleech need to remain alive as well?
A Yes.  The Lleech host must be alive, to keep the going, so the Lleech must live too since they can only die with their host.

Q Can the Lleech die to the Boomdandy?
A Yes, by killing the host, the Lleech will also die.
  This should obviously only be done if the game can continue via the Twins or the Mastermind.

  The Lleech can be directly attacked by the Boomdandy ability and they would survive,
  which would result in more than three left alive after the kills have all been processed.

  The host, and therefore the Lleech, should not be killed if the Scarlet Woman is in play
  as that results in a broken situation where the new Lleech should have a host,
  but has not yet had a chance to choose one and so cannot die.
  This would guarantee an evil win in almost all situations as the ex Scarlet Woman will pick a host from the remaining living players that night,
  then kill a different player to win.

Q If the Boomdandy explodes, is it okay to kill the Demon and have the game continue into a Mastermind day?
A No that would be an evil loss.  In order to trigger a Mastermind day the Demon must be executed, and Boomdandy deaths are not due to execution.

Q Can the Mayor win the game after the Boomdandy is triggered and no one dies after the pointing?
A No. Even though there are three players left alive at the end of the day, the Boomdandy's execution earlier that day means that the Mayor ability cannot trigger.

Q If the Boomdandy is executed, would the in play Minstrel immediately cause them to be drunk, preventing their exploding?
A Yes.
C https://discord.com/channels/569683781800296501/696695228496871436/1021765071237546005

Q What happens when the Moonchild dies to the Boomdandy?
A Like the Klutz, when the Moonchild is declared dead, they should interject to choose an alive (at that point) player.
  Unlike the Klutz though it is less critical for the game as to what they do.

Q Can the Pacifist block deaths caused by the Boomdandy being executed?
A No. The Pacifist saves good players specifically from execution, and Boomdandy deaths are not due to execution.

Q Can the Pixie still gain their ability for the one minute after the Boomdandy explodes, killing their marked player?
A Yes.

Q Can the sober Sailor still die in the Boomdandy's explosion?
A No, they would have to remain alive in the final three.

Q If the Saint is killed when the Boomdandy explodes, is that an evil win?
A No. The Saint needs to die to execution for evil to win, and Boomdandy deaths are not due to execution.

Q After the Boomdandy is triggered can the Savant still get their info within the post-execution minute?
A Yes, but this does not extend the time limit.

Q Can the Demon die when the Boomdandy triggers and have their Scarlet Woman become the new Demon?
A Yes, if the Boomdandy deaths happen in the right order,
  then the SW can become the new Demon if the previous Demon died while there were five alive.
  The former SW will reason that they are now the Demon.

Q If the Slayer survives the Boomdandy's explosion, can she still take her shot?
A Yes, she may act during the minute after the Boomdandy's kills are announced.
  As this is extraordinarily powerful in this context, the unused Slayer should probably die to the Boomdandy.

Q What happens when the Sweetheart dies when the Boomdandy explodes?
A The Sweetheart makes someone drunk when they die.
  Usually this should be a player that is also dying to the Boomdandy ability.
  They could make the Boomdandy drunk to immediately stop the killing and move the game straight to night without any pointing,
  but this is a terrible idea as it is using an Outsider to help the good team immensely, and confirming both a good and evil player in the process.

Q If the Tinker survives the Boomdandy, could they immediately die afterwards, ending the game with an evil win?
A Yes, but don't.

Q What happens if the Zombuul dies after the Boomdandy ability is triggered?
A The Zombuul would be single-killed by the Boomdandy ability and then there can be three other living players plus the once-dead Zombuul, 
  so the players would need to point to the appearing-dead Zombuul to kill them.
  As many players died that day, the Zombuul does not get to kill tonight,
  so even if the pointing results in a death, the town would definitely get one more day as there will be two living players plus an appearing-dead Zombuul.

Q What happens if the Zombuul is registering as dead when the Boomdandy ability is triggered? 
A All but three players die, so there will be three other players plus the registering as dead Zombuul left alive.

  The once killed Zombuul registers as dead to every ability including the Boomdandy's so survives to what appears to be a final three.

Q Does the protection / poisoning / drunkenness immediately end when the Boomdandy's explosion kills any sources of such
  (Courtier / Innkeeper / Philosopher / Poisoner / Tea Lady / ...)?
A Yes.  The targets of such abilities immediately lose their protection / become healthy / become sober.

Q The Boomdandy triggers then at the end of a minute the ST takes a count
  and there is a tie for the player most pointed at.
  What happens?
A No one dies and the game goes to night and evil will probably win when the Demon kills.

Q After the Boomdandy explodes resulting in only three players left alive,
  can a player who is mad (Cerenovus / Harpy / Mutant / ...) still be executed for breaking madness?
A Yes.
  This will almost certainly end the game as it will likely leave only two living players (the Boomdandy's resulting three minus the mad player).

Q If the Boomdandy is executed on final three, does the Boomdandy's ability still trigger and all players point to either of the last two players alive?
A No. Two players alive is the evil team's win condition, so the game ends and evil wins.

Q Who should the ST kill when the Boomdandy triggers?
A It is going to be very specific to the exact characters in play and alive.
  Some general guidelines and ideas:
  * In most cases, leave the Demon alive in the final three, otherwise the game ends in good's favour using a Minion ability.
  * The Demon can be killed if there is an Evil Twin pair both still alive, leaving the choice for town to choose between the two twins with a non-Demon third player.
  * The final three cannot be the Twins and the Demon as that is an automatic evil win.
  * It is a bad idea to leave hard-confirmed characters alive in final three.
    A final three that includes the proc'd Virgin and the Professor who resurrected a dead player would be unfair on evil who managed to get their Boomdandy executed.
  * If the Klutz killed by the Boomdandy chose a player between executions, the Klutz-picked player can be left alive to cast suspicion on the Klutz claim.
  * There is no mechanical problem to leave only evil left alive in final three as the Boomdandy kill does not require a nomination,
    just the pointing, but this can be very hard on good to have to work out exactly which of the evil players is actually the Demon.
  * There are some abilities that can prevent the Boomdandy coming down to a final three and instead having four or even five left alive. 
    While this can be interesting, it should be used sparingly, as it soft-confirms a few players
    (the player claiming Sailor or Fool is almost certainly good / the Tea Lady and their neighbours / ... ). 

Q When the Boomdandy explodes which of the players get to point at who they think is the Demon?
A All players, regardless of living status.


===============
=Bounty Hunter=
===============
Q Does the Cannibal gaining the Bounty Hunter ability see the same evil player the BH saw?
A They do not have to.

Q Can the Bounty Hunter turn the Drunk evil?
A No.

  The Drunk is not a Townfsolk, they only believe that they are, so they cannot be turned evil with the BH ability.

Q If the Lleech chooses the Bounty Hunter turned Townsfolk, are they still turned evil?
A Yes, this is a [setup] ability and has already occurred.

Q Can the Bounty Hunter learn the currently evil Cult Leader?
A The Bounty Hunter can learn any evil player, so yes,
  and the BH will only learn a new player when the Cult Leader dies regardless of any subsequent alignment change.

  The BH would not be able to learn the CL on N1 as they can only change alignment at the end of the night, after the BH wakes,
  unless the BH themself turned the CL at setup.

Q Does the Drunk or the Marionette that sees the Bounty Hunter token turn a Townsfolk evil?
A No.  The ST must decide to make the Bounty Hunter the Drunk or the Marionette
  before a Townsfolk is woken and told that they are evil as a result of the Bounty Hunter ability.

Q If the Bounty Hunter sees the Fool do they need to die twice for the BH to learn another player?
A Yes.

Q If the ST gains a Minion ability via the Plague Doctor, can they be seen by the Bounty Hunter?
A No, the ST is not evil.

Q Can the Bounty Hunter learn the Recluse?
A Yes.

Q Can the Spy register as a good Townsfolk in order to be turned evil by the Bounty Hunter?
A Yes, but this is not recommended.

Q Does the Bounty Hunter who learns the Zombuul still learn a different player after the Zombuul 'dies' for the first time?
A Yes.

Q Is a Townsfolk still turned evil on N1 if the Bounty Hunter is drunk (Courtier / Sailor / ...) or poisoned (Lleech / No Dashii / ...)?
A Yes, unless the BH is _the_ Drunk.

  A Townsfolk being turned evil is a setup effect and cannot be affected by any kind of drunkenness or poisoning.
  Effectively it happens before tokens are sent out.

Q If the Bounty Hunter's evil Townsfolk is turned into an Outsider, are they still evil or do they become good and a new Townsfolk turned evil?
A They remain evil, as they were turned on setup and their alignment being evil is not an ongoing effect and not linked to their character.

Q Are the Minions and the Demon informed of the Townsfolk turned evil by the Bounty Hunter?
A No.

Q Can the Bounty Hunter be the evil Townsfolk?
A Yes, but this is not recommended.

Q Can the Bounty Hunter learn a Vigormortis-killed Minion?
A Yes, it is possible for them to learn any dead evil player.
  The only restriction is that they cannot learn the same player twice in a row.
  The ST will need to consider if this is a fair move,
  since the BH only gets a new name when their current target dies, and the dead cannot die (unless they are first resurrected somehow),
  so showing them a dead evil player probably means that they will get no more info for the rest of the game.

Q If the Bounty Hunter dies and then is resurrected (Professor / Al-Hadikhia / ...) do they learn a new evil player?
A Yes, which can be the same previously learnt player or a new evil player.

Q If an evil player the Bounty Hunter see dies, a new evil player is shown.
  But if a previously seen evil player is resurrected (Al-Hadikhia) and dies again, does the BH learn another evil player?
A No.

  For example:
  * the BH sees a Minion on N1
  * that Minion is executed on D1
  * the BH sees a second Minion on N2 and the first Minion is resurrected by the Al-Hadikhia
  * the first Minion is executed again D2
  * N3 the BH does not get a new name, as their current known evil player is still the second Minion

Q How many evil players can the Bounty Hunter learn?
A The Bounty Hunter can keep learning evil players as long as the players they are shown keep dying.


=========
=Butcher=
=========
Q Can the Butcher nominate the Psychopath for a second attempt to kill them if they survived the first execution that day?
A Yes.

Q Can the Butcher nominate someone who was nominated by someone else the same day?
A Yes, after the first execution.

Q Can the Butcher use their nomination to execute a Traveller?
A No, Travellers cannot be executed, not even with the Butcher's ability.


========
=Butler=
========
Q What happens if the Butler votes but then their master, who is after them in the voting order, lowers their hand before the ST gets to them?
A Nothing as this is the Butler playing as normal.
  Their vote still counts and there are no consequences.

  The Butler is allowed to vote if their master voted or has their hand up to vote.
  It is sometimes advantageous for the Butler to pick someone clockwise from them for this reason.

Q If the Butler votes when their master does not, what happens?
A Mechanically, nothing.
  Their vote is still counted, otherwise the total will be less than it should be, automatically hard confirming the Butler, which is unfair for the evil team.
  Also, mistakes happen, just play on for now.
  
  Later, the ST should speak with them privately and remind them of the constraints of their ability,
  and let them know that it is considered cheating to purposefully vote without their master.
  Generally this is enough to keep a player paying more attention,
  because most people are not playing this game in bad faith nor looking to cheat.

  It is also irrelevant if they knew, suspected or were totally unaware that they were drunk or poisoned when they voted.
  They should not attempt to vote without their master to test for drunkenness or poisoning,
  as their ability is a social contract that they must always abide by as they have no way of knowing if their ability is functioning or not.

  If they keep doing it though, then it should be dealt with however the group deals with cheating:
  ending the game early, letting it finish but talking about it after, not inviting that person back, etc.
  There is no prescriptive option for what to do with someone who is cheating, as that is a social issue for the group to handle.


==========
=Cannibal=
==========
Q What does the Cannibal Alchemist learn?
A They are woken and shown and an out of play Minion.
  Their Minion ability does not have to be the same as the Alchemist's.

Q If the Cannibal eats the Alchemist and is shown the Scarlet Woman,
  do they become the good Demon when the Demon is executed the next day,
  or are they the poisoned Cannibal?
A They become the good Demon; the SW ability triggers before the Cannibal can switch abilities.

Q If the Cannibal eats the Amnesiac do they inherit the same Amnesiac ability?
A ST decision.

  As a new instance of the Amnesiac ability it can be completely different.
  However, as the Cannibal is unlikely to bingo their ability in such a small time frame,
  it would probably be best to continue the original Amnesiac ability so that the Amne and the Cannibal can collaborate.

Q If the Apprentice is somehow executed instead of exiled, what ability does the Cannibal gain?
A If they were a good Apprentice,
  then the good Cannibal would gain a Townsfolk ability, likely the same one the Apprentice had,
  while the evil Cannibal would gain a Minion ability.
  If however the Apprentice was evil then the Cannibal would be poisoned and can be deceived about what they gained,
  but probably whatever the Apprentice was bluffing

Q What is the Butler jinx with the Cannibal?
A The Cannibal learns when they gain the Butler ability, otherwise they could  without realising break the Butler rules regarding voting.

Q If an evil player bluffing as the Butler or the Zealot is executed,
  could the ST deceive the now poisoned Cannibal into believing that they had gained the respective ability?
A Yes.

  Drunk or poisoned players can be told anything to convince them that their ability is working,
  and jinxes are included in this as they are expected outcomes for their ability.
  So when the Butler or the Zealot are the script,
  whenever the Cannibal is drunk or poisoned they can be deceived about gaining the ability,
  regardless of what the executed player was bluffing as.

Q What happens when the Cannibal eats the Drunk?
A They gain the ability of the Drunk, so the ST deceives the Cannibal that they have any Townsfolk ability, usually whatever the Drunk thought that they had.

  Regardless of what ability the ST pretends they have gained,
  if it is mechanical it cannot have an effect on the game;
  if it is informational, the information is arbitrary.

Q After eating the Drunk, if someone else dies, does the Cannibal get to eat them or do they stay 'the Drunk'?
A The Cannibal gets to eat them.
  They have the ability of the Drunk, but they are not actually the Drunk so their main Cannibal ability works just fine. 

Q If the Cannibal gains the Fortune Teller's ability, how would the ST gesture for them to pick two players at night?
A The ST can prompt the Cannibal to choose a player, then wait for them to choose, and then choose a player.

  Alternatively the ST can make the sweeping "choose a player" gesture and then hold two fingers.

  If there is confusion and the ST cannot get them to start the choosing process, writing a note on a phone and showing it to the player is fine.

Q If the Cannibal gains a sober and healthy Imp ability, can they starpass?
A Yes, assuming an available Minion.

  Although it would take a series of interesting events to arrive at this situation.

Q How is the Cannibal Juggler ever going to get their info?
A In the case of the Cannibal Juggler, there would have to be no new deaths by execution the day they juggled,
  so that they maintain their Juggler ability to find out the results of their juggle the following night.
  Perhaps town could kindly execute a dead or protected player, instead of someone who is going to die ...

  As per the jinx, if the Juggler is executed D1 after having juggled, then the Cannibal will learn how many guesses the Juggler got correct.
  The Cannibal can then go on to perform their own juggle and potentially get a second number.

-----------combine
Q What happens if the Cannibal Klutz / Moonchild dies and does not pick?
A They can be given a gentle reminder privately that the player who was executed claimed that and they should likely be making a pick as well as a result.
  This includes when they ate an evil bluffing that.
  If they still choose not to,
  then that would prompt a larger discussion after the game about group expectations when the Cannibal is on a script with those characters on it.


Q Does the Cannibal learn that they have the Klutz or the Moonchild ability to prevent accidental cheating,
  similar to how they learn that they have the Butler or the Zealot ability via the jinxes?
A No.

  On execution the Klutz and the Moonchild make public claims,
  meaning that the Cannibal should know that they are about to gain that ability,
  unless they get woken for something else that night,
  so know that should they be executed before gaining a new ability that they should make a public claim of their own.

  However, the Butler and the Zealot are not required to make public claims hence the need for them to be jinxed.
-----------------

Q Does the Demon learn the Cannibal after the Lunatic is executed?
A Yes.  The Cannibal would have all of the Lunatic's ability, which means the Demon must know that player as their Lunatic, and their choices.

Q What happens when the Cannibal eats the Lunatic?
A The Cannibal is told that they are one of the Demons on the script and asked to make any choices if applicable.
  Some STs will confirm that they are still good, but RAW this is unnecessary.
  The Cannibal Lunatic is not given any bluffs or shown any Minions as that only happens N1.
  The Demon is informed that the Cannibal player is their Lunatic, and learns who they chose,
  and from this will deduce the Cannibal's real identity.

  If the Cannibal asks what character they are at any point while they have the Lunatic ability,
  they should be told that they are the Demon that they were shown.

  If the Cannibal loses the Lunatic ability through a further execution,
  then they are treated exactly as they would have been had that execution occurred without a Lunatic execution beforehand.
  They are not told about no longer being a Demon but if they ask what character they are, they should be told that they are the Cannibal, 
  with nothing confirmed about why they were told that they were a Demon.

  All of this assumes that the Cannibal is neither drunk or poisoned.
  If they ate an evil player then they can be lied to about their ability.
  If a player with suspicion on them is executed then it is fun to deceive the drunk Cannibal with the Lunatic ability.
  And on a script with the Pit-Hag or the Fang Gu and the Drunk, it is possible for the Cannibal to believe that they really are the Demon.

Q If the Mutant is executed, could the Cannibal be executed if for some reason they claim that they are an Outsider?
A Yes.

  They can claim to be the Cannibal with the Mutant ability,
  because that is not claiming an Outsider, that is claiming to be the Cannibal (who is a Townsfolk),
  but they are at risk of execution for any Outsider claims. 

Q If the Cannibal eats the Ogre, how is it run?
A If a good Ogre is executed, the Cannibal gains the Ogre ability,
  They are woken to pick a player and become the alignment of that player.
  They are not told their alignment.
  The next time a player dies to execution, the Cannibal loses the Ogre ability but stays the alignment of the player they chose for the rest of the game. 

  If an evil Ogre is executed, the Cannibal is poisoned due to the Cannibals ability.

Q Does the Philosopher choosing an ability make another ability gainer (Boffin / Cannibal / Pixie) with the same ability drunk?
A No, the Philosopher only ever makes the character drunk, not the ability.

  The drunkenness due to the Philosopher can only ever affect a player with the corresponding character token in the Grimoire.
  Merely having gained the ability through some means is not sufficient,
  meaning the Demon gaining the same ability via the Boffin remains sober,
  as do the Cannibal and the Pixie for example.

Q Does the Cannibal Philosopher get to keep the ability they gain via the Philo ability?
A Not permanently. After another player is executed, they lose both the Philo ability and the ability it gained
  and they gain the ability of the most recent executee.

Q The Cannibal eats the Philosopher, then picks Cannibal so they become drunk.
  Does the drunkenness get removed because they are what drunks themself?
A Droison loops are resolved by the involved players being droisoned.
  So the Cannibal drunks herself until another player dies by execution.

Q If the Cannibal eats a character that gained another ability (Philosopher / Pixie)
  does she gain both abilities?
A No, just the original ability.
  
  The Cannibal does not care what else someone might have gained, just what their token is.

Q If the Cannibal gains the Pixie ability, and the other player dies, does the Cannibal keep the ability after Cannibal swapping?
A When a new player dies from execution, the Cannibal loses the Pixie ability, 
  and in turn loses any other ability they might have gained (although it is very difficult in the first place
  for the Cannibal to gain an ability via the Pixie ability)

Q What happens when the Cannibal eats the good Plague Doctor?
A They gain the PD ability.  If they die before another player is executed then the PD ability is triggered.

Q What happens when the Cannibal gains the Preacher ability?
A They wake at night and pick a player.
  Any Minion chosen by the Cannibal Preacher loses the use of their ability and learns that they were chosen by the Preacher.

  Minions preached with this instance of the Preacher ability regain the use of their abilities
  either when the Cannibal dies or after the next execution which causes the Cannibal to gain a different ability.

Q How does the Cannibal who thinks they have the Klutz or the Moonchild ability work if they die to the Pukka?
A While the Cannibal is Pukka poisoned their ability to gain the ability of the most recent executee fails.
  So after the next execution the poisoned Cannibal does not gain the corresponding ability,
  but if the executee made a claim of Klutz / Moonchild,
  the Cannibal will do the same the following morning and it will have no effect on the gamestate,
  and the ST will act as they would when the ability was functioning normally.

  # The Cannibal will know to make a public claim since they will have heard the most recent executee claim to be the Klutz / Moonchild.
  They will not know anything for certain about current or previous drunkenness or poisoning and will not know whether the executee's claim was genuine or a bluff,
  so to avoid inadvertently breaking any game rules they make their own claim.
  # There is no effect on the gamestate since at no point did the Cannibal gain the corresponding ability,
  neither when the player was executed, as their own Cannibal ability was poisoned,
  nor after the Cannibal died since they only became healthy after they were already dead and no longer had an active Cannibal ability.

Q How does the Cannibal Puzzlemaster work?
A While the Cannibal has the Puzzlemaster ability they make someone drunk until another player dies to execution.
  Meanwhile, they can guess the player who has newly been made drunk and learn the Demon if successful;
  if they pick a player made drunk from another source, including the original Puzzlemaster, then the guess is unsuccessful.

  If the Cannibal dies while still having the Puzzlemaster ability,
  then it means two players are Puzzlemaster drunk for the rest of the game:
  one due to the actual Puzzlemaster, and one due to the Cannibal Puzzlemaster.

Q Can the Cannibal who eats the Puzzlemaster drunk themself?
A Yes, until the next time a player dies to execution and they lose the Puzzlemaster ability.

Q What happens when the Cannibal eats the Recluse?
A If the Recluse misregisters as an evil Minion or Demon,
  then the Cannibal is poisoned and can be deceived by the ST about the ability that they gained,
  typically with whatever the evil player was bluffing as.

  If instead the Recluse registers as what they actually are, the Recluse,
  then the Cannibal gains the Recluse ability, meaning they can misregister as evil or as a Minion or Demon to other abilities,
  which arguably is already bad enough for the Cannibal!

  Some STs find it acceptable to have the Recluse misregister as a good Minion or Demon,
  giving the Cannibal a healthy evil ability; this is generally a bad idea and not recommended.

Q Could the evil Cannibal (Bounty Hunter / Mezepheles / Ogre) eat the Recluse and guess the Damsel?
A No.

  Evil or good, the Cannibal is not a Minion.

Q The Cannibal jinx with Riot states that nominated deaths count as executions for the Cannibal. 
  Does that mean that the Cannibal can potentially have multiple abilities functioning that night 
  and they do not know which ones are being used each time they wake up to use them?
A The Cannibal's ability is still the most recently killed executee,
  so they only have the one ability at a time,
  though it may change rapidly as players nominate one another.

Q If the Scapegoat, a Traveller, is executed, can the Cannibal gain their ability? 
A Yes. 
  Travellers can get executed due to their ability (the Scapegoat) or madness breaks.
  And if a Traveller instead of being exiled is executed
  then the Cannibal either gets that good Traveller's ability, or are poisoned by an evil Traveller.

Q What happens when the Cannibal eats the Snitch?
A The Minions are woken that night and given three out of play characters which may or may not be the same ones they or the Demon received previously.

  As with any info roles though, the mid game Snitch ability will activate after killers, poisoners and roles causing drunkenness have acted.

Q If the Cannibal eats the Snitch, do Minions gain another three bluffs or do they get nothing?
A They get another three, since there is a new Snitch ability in play.

Q How does the Spy interact with the Cannibal?
A Most of the time it makes sense to register the Spy as evil to poison the Cannibal and deceive them with whatever makes sense.
  But as the Spy's ability to register as good is separate to their ability to register as a Townsfolk or an Outsider,
  there are a lot of options available to the ST.

  Should the Spy register as a good Townsfolk to the Cannibal,
  then, for as long as they register as such,
  the Cannibal would have that Townsfolk's ability.
  For example, the Cannibal could:
  * get a gossip kill in;
  * register as the Nightwatchman to another player;
  * become Solider safe from the Demon tonight;
  * grant Monk protection to another player ...

  If the Spy registered as the good Spy to the Cannibal
  then the Cannibal would see an accurate Grimoire,
  which would be pretty wild idea and not recommended!
  But a potentially fun and interesting move is to have the Spy register as the _evil_ Spy,
  allowing the ST to show an altered version of the Grimoire instead.
  A completely inaccurate Grimoire would likely be too obvious a deception,
  but one with some subtle changes could work.
C https://discord.com/channels/569683781800296501/719898820942626817/1176670653429063731

Q Does the Zombuul's execution register to the Cannibal?
A Yes, the Cannibal would be poisoned.

Q Does the Cannibal gain the ability of an executed player that does not die? 
A No.

  The execution must cause the player to die in order for the Cannibal to gain their ability.
  So executing dead players or protected players means the Cannibal does not gain their ability.

----------------combine & generalise
Q If the Cannibal eats the Slayer do they learn that hey have a shot?
A No, as with the Artist or any other ability that does not wake at night.

Q Does the Cannibal with the Savant ability get any hint from the ST that she can get two pieces of information?
A No it is the Cannibal's job to find out what ability she might have by talking to executed players.

Q If the Cannibal is not sure whether they ate an info gatherer (Fisherman / Savant / ...)
  can the ST just give them false info if the Cannibal asks for it?
A No. If the Cannibal privately asks to use an info ability that they do not have,
  the ST should tell them that they do not have that ability.
  If the Cannibal is poisoned because a player was evil,
  then the ST is allowed to give them false info,
  but should only do so if the evil player was bluffing as that role.

  Publicly claimed abilities like the Slayer, should be entertained in the way that the ST does for anyone else,
  but obviously they would have no effect if the Cannibal did not have the ability.

Q What does the ST say to the Cannibal when they gain an ability? / Is the Cannibal told what ability they gained?
A The ST never informs the Cannibal of which ability they gain, except for when they gain the Butler or the Zealot abilities as per the jinxes.

  Instead, the ST does what they would do for the standard character with that ability.
  So they would prompt the player to choose player(s) or a character if that is part of their current ability.
  
  The Cannibal may then infer what ability they have based on what the ST prompts them to do.  Or they could just ask the most recent executee what they are.
------------------------

Q Can the Cannibal change alignment if they eat an alignment changer (Cult Leader / Goon / Ogre)?
A Yes.

  Interactions with an alignment changer can make evil Cannibals, 
  but does require that the executee not be evil at the time of their execution,
  else the Cannibal would be poisoned.

  If the Cannibal is flipped and a non-alignment changer is then executed,
  the Cannibal can be locked in as their changed alignment.

  The Spirit of Ivory fabled is recommended for scripts where there is a possibility of too many evils being created.

Q If the Cannibal is picked by a character checking ability (Dreamer / Gambler / Grandmother / Ravenkeeper / Undertaker / ...) what are they seen as?
A The Cannibal, regardless of the ability they may have gained.

Q The Cannibal gains the ability of the recently killed executee,
  but what happens if that character is resurrected / regurgitated (Al-Hadikhia / Professor / Shabaloth / ...)?
A The Cannibal keeps their ability, because they are still the recently killed executee even though they are alive again.
  
Q Does the Cannibal who is resurrected / regurgitated (Al-Hadikhia / Professor / Shabaloth / ...) still gain the ability of the recently killed executee that night?
A Yes, they immediately gain the relevant ability.

--  For example, the Chambermaid is executed and dies, 
--  then the Professor resurrects the Cannibal that night, 
--  the Cannibal will wake the same night to use the Chambermaid ability,
--  even though the Cannibal was dead when the Chambermaid was executed.

Q If an evil Townsfolk or Outsider (Bounty Hunter / Cult Leader / Goon / Mezepheles / Ogre) is executed, is the Cannibal poisoned?
A Yes, the Cannibal is poisoned by any evil role.

Q If a good Demon is executed and there are no other Demons alive, but the Cannibal is in play,
  does the game immediately end or does it continue until the Cannibal no longer has the Demon's ability? 
A The Cannibal with a Demon ability still is not a Demon, so with no Demon alive, the game would end.

Q If a good player who is scheduled to be Mezepheles turned is executed that day, is the Cannibal still poisoned?
A Yes.

  The Mez can turn a dead player and the Cannibal is a constant check,
  so the Cannibal would become poisoned as soon as the recently executed player turns evil.

Q If a player gains the Nightwatchman ability (Apprentice / Boffin / Cannibal / Philosopher / Pixie) what are they shown to other players as?
A Nightwatchman.

  The "you" in these kinds of abilities refers to the ability itself.
  As it is the Nightwatchman ability, their target is shown the Nightwatchman token, not the token of the player with the ability.

-------------two in one?
Q The Cannibal wants to ask their Artist question / get their Savant info, but the player that died was good but not actually the Artist/Savant.
  What does the ST answer to the Cannibal-Artist/ Cannibal-Savant question? 
A The ST could reply with something like "I cannot answer that" / "You cannot do that", 
  just as they would to any non-Artist/non-Savant who tries to use a question / get info.

Q A dead player breaks Cerenovus madness and is executed.  Does the Cannibal gain the ability of that player's character tonight?
A No.

Q Does the Cannibal wake at the same spot in the night order as the character that they ate?
A Yes, except when they eat "you start knowing" characters in which case the Cannibal is woken after killers and droisoners act.

Q If the player with the most votes dies for another reason (Gangster / Harpy / Slayer / Witch / ...) before being executed,
  do the Cannibal and Undertaker abilities still trigger?
A No, as the player must die as a direct result of the execution.
  If the player is already dead then town is executing a corpse
  which does not trigger the Cannibal and the Undertaker.


===========
=Cerenovus=
===========
Q Does the Cult Leader break madness by calling for a cult while Cerenovus mad as another character?
A Yes, but this is up to the ST.

Q If a player Cerenovus mad as the Mutant claims to be the Mutant, what happens?
A Nothing, unless they are the Mutant.

  The Mutant made Cerenovus mad as the Mutant is dependent on the mercy of the ST.
  Either they are executed by their own ability for claiming to be the Mutant,
  or they are executed due to the Cerenovus for _not_ claiming it.

  Cerenovus madness requires the player to make a sincere effort to convince others that they are a certain character.
  This could be as simple as saying "I am <character>", but it is up to the ST to judge if the player is making a genuine attempt.
  For sure the Mutant is an unusual case as the acutal Mutant usually does not admit to being what they are,
  so a player claiming such may not be believed.
  The player affected should ask the ST what their expectations are.

Q Can a player made mad by the Cerenovus, instead of being mad as the character,
  safely claim to be the Cannibal or the Philosopher with the ability of that character?
A No, as the player is not claiming to actually _be_ that character which is the Cerenovus requirement.
  Claiming to have the ability is not the same as being the character,
  so the ST may decide to execute for breaking madness,
  or not if they view it as only a minor break.
  
  To be safe, it is best to clarify with the ST what they consider to be acceptable when it comes to satisfying madness.

Q Do executions for breaking Cerenovus madness occur immediately?
A At any time the ST decides to execute, but it always ends the day if it happens during the day.

Q How does madness work if there is a hard confirmed player (Golem / Virgin / ...)
  and the Cerenovus makes another player mad as that player's role?
A It is not necessary for the player be believed as their madness target.
  As long as they make a good show and reasonable effort to convince other players that they are that role and argue against the confirmed player,
  they cannot be executed.
  Should they back down then they can be executed for a madness break.

Q Can a player Cerenovus mad as the role that they actually have, 
  claim this and be safe from a madness break execution?
A Often it does lead to execution because of its use as code for "I am not actually this role".

  But a player claiming to be Cerenovus mad as their role is fine
  if the player is making a sincere effort to convince other players that that is what happened; this is fulfilling madness.

Q A good player is Cerenovus mad and breaks madness. The ST decides to not execute for the madness break. 
  The next day the good player is no longer Cerenovus mad.
  Can the ST on any subsequent day execute the good player for the previous madness break?
A The madness due to the Cerenovus ability is in effect until the end of the following night,
  so once that time has passed, their target cannot be executed for breaking madness because it no longer applies to them.
  
  This does mean that after the Cerenovus picks a new madness target, 
  the previous player could still be executed for breaking madness before the end of the night phase,
  but most STs would not do this as night executions usually make little sense.

Q Can the Cerenovus make themself mad?
A Yes!  They can even break madness to get themself executed,
  but if they intentionally break madness in final three it is best not to execute otherwise the ST is giving evil an easy win.

Q Can the self mad Cerenovus be executed for breaking madness?
A Yes, but it is probably best not to if it is final three so as not be too harmful to the good team.

Q If a player is Cerenovus mad, dies, and then breaks madness in death, can they be executed?
A Yes.

Q If a player is Cerenovus mad as the Butler, but votes when their claimed master does not, can the voting be cut off and she be executed for breaking madness immediately?
A If the ST thinks that she is not being mad as the Butler, she may be executed.
  It could happen immediately though it is almost certainly better to at least wait until the vote is finished.

Q Suppose the Cerenovus maddens a dead player, to either maintain confusion or waste an execution.
  Someone else is executed; is it allowed for the mad player to break madness immediately after the announcement?
  Technically they will remain mad until the Cere's night order, but there is no longer a downside in breaking it.
  Is it cheating (so the ST could punish it by executing them tomorrow anyway),
  or maybe maddening a dead player is strong and can be taken down a notch, or maybe Cere can counter by maddening them again?
A Executions can occur at night and it is a legal way to punish good sometimes.
  But as they are already dead, this will cause them to simply die, or well, nothing will happen.
  It might be best for the ST to not execute them to confirm nothing.

Q Is a player claiming there is a Cerenovus while they are mad (but still pretending to be the character that they are supposed to be mad about) breaking madness?
A Not inherently, but madness is really subjective and context dependent.

Q If the Cerenovus makes a player mad and is then swapped (Barber / Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / ...),
  is the Cerenovus's victim informed that they are no longer mad?
A No, they are unaware that they are no longer under the effects of madness, and that they can no longer be executed for a madness break.

Q Is it breaking madness when a daytime info gatherer (Artist / Fisherman / Savant / ...) who is Cerenovus mad as another character comes to the ST for their info?
A No.

  Madness is about publicly convincing other players that something is true but does not mean that they cannot still use their ability in private.
  The ST is not the group so does not need to be convinced privately by a mad player.
  Anyone can talk to the ST at any time for any reason, so approaching them privately is never a madness break.
  If challenged as to why they approached the ST the player could reply 'I had a question for the ST'.

  However, if the player announced to the group they were going to get their information for their actual character, that would be a different story and handled accordingly.

Q If the Psychopath / Slayer made Cerenovus mad as another character publicly claims her actual character,
  can she be executed for a madness break before she swings/slays? 
A Yes.

  The act of declaring her character when she uses her ability can count as breaking madness,
  so the ST can rule that she is executed before the ability can process,
  even if she had already stated the target of her ability.

Q If the Cerenovus makes a dead player mad, and they break the madness does the day end?
A Yes, executing a dead player still ends the day.

Q Can a player picked by the Cerenovus and executed the same night for breaking madness be executed the same day for breaking the same madness again?
A Yes.

Q If a player Cerenovus mad for two days in a row as two different characters states the second day that they were mad the day before, have they broken madness?
A Probably not, unless they are trying to subtly hint that they are mad today.


=============
=Chambermaid=
=============
Q What is the Al-Hadikhia jinx with the Chambermaid?
A The Al-Hadikhia's targets do not register as waking, if they would not otherwise wake,
  because it is due to the Al-Hadikhia ability that they are waking.

Q Does the Demon learning that they have an ability granted via their Boffin register to the Chambermaid?
A No, as the Demon is waking due to the Boffin's ability, not their own.

Q Does the Cannibal gaining a night-waking ability and waking to use it, register to the Chambermaid?
A Yes.

Q Does the Damsel waking to learn that they have been turned into a Townsfolk register to the Chambermaid?
A Only if they wake due to their new ability, since players waking to learn that they are a new character is not waking due to their own ability.  

Q Does waking a Minion to tell them the Damsel is in play register to the Chambermaid?
A No, that is not waking due to their ability.

Q Do the Drunk, Marionette and the Lunatic who wake at night "wake at night due to their own ability" for the Chambermaid?
A Yes.

  They do not actually have the ability that they think they have, 
  but if they saw a wake at night ability then it still registers to the Chambermaid.

  Their ability is that they think they are a Townsfolk / Demon, but are not.
  Waking them up is important to making them think they are a character that wakes.
  Therefore, them waking up is due to their ability.

Q The Drunk/Marionette thinks they are a Townsfolk, and wakes up to falsely to learn that they are the Farmer.  Does this ping the Chambermaid?
A Yes, as the waking is due to their own ability.

Q Does an exorcised Demon wake up to her own ability for Chambermaid purposes?
A No, her waking up tonight to learn that she was chosen is solely due to the Exorcist's ability.

Q If the Demon is selected by the Exorcist, their waking to learn the Exorcist is not reflected in the Chambermaid's number,
  since they are waking due to the Exorcist's ability.
  However, if the Recluse registering as the Demon is selected by the Exorcist, 
  then them waking to see the Exorcist is caused by the Exorcist's ability or their own,
  since it was their own misregistration that allowed them to wake?
A They woke to the Exorcist's ability so it does not register to the Chambermaid.
  They are not being tricked into believing something fake (like the Lunatic for instance), so it is not their own ability.
  The Exorcist still did choose them and directly cause their waking.

Q Does a new instance of the Evil Twin learning their twin ping the Chambermaid?
A Yes.  Learning that they are now the Evil Twin does not ping the Chambermaid,
  but waking due to their ability to know their twin is a Chambermaid +1.

Q Does the Godfather waking to learn the Outsiders register to the Chambermaid?
A Yes, even in a zero Outsider game when the Godfather learns a 'no'.

Q Do "start knowing" roles, like the Grandmother learning their grandchild, register on their first night to the Chambermaid?
A Yes, they woke up to their own ability.

Q If the Lunatic believes that they are a non waking Demon
  do they register to the Chambermaid if the ST wakes them to deceive them with false info?
A Yes, they woke due to their ability.

  The ST is allowed to deceive the Lunatic with anything that they would tell the real Demon.
  Since it is the Lunatic's own ability that is allowing this deception then they are waking to their own ability for the purposes of the Chambermaid.

Q The Lunatic wakes up to falsely learn a player is the Exorcist that selected them. Does this ping the Chambermaid?
A Yes, as the waking is due to their own ability.

Q Do Minions, the Demon and the Lunatic getting their N1 info count as waking to the Chambermaid?
A Only in the case of the Lunatic.

  The Chambermaid detects if a player woke up for their character ability, and Minion and Demon info are a function of character type, not character ability.
  In contrast, the Lunatic, who wakes up to receive Demon info is detected by the Chambermaid
  because they are not actually a Demon and did wake up due to their own ability.

Q Does the King register to the Chambermaid?
A Not until the dead outnumber the living.
  After that point he begins to wake up to receive his info and will start to register to the Chambermaid.

Q If the good Mezepheles turns themself evil that night, does that count as a +1 to the Chambermaid?
A Yes, they woke up due to their own ability.

Q Does the player selected by the Nightwatchman register to the Chambermaid?
A No, as they are waking to the Nightwatchman ability, not their own.

Q Do Minions and the Demon waking to learn each other after the Poppy Grower dies register to the Chambermaid?
A No, as they are waking due to the Poppy Grower ability and not their own.

  Nor does the Poppy Grower register as waking.

Q The Imp self-kills and the Scarlet Woman becomes the new Imp.
  Does the SW waking to learn their new character alert the Chambermaid?
A Maybe.

  Usually when a Minion learns that they are now the Imp, they are waking due to the Imp's ability rather than their own.
  In which case they are very definitely not waking to their own ability so do not register to the Chambermaid.
  
  However, the SW's ability is about becoming the Demon should the previous one die for any reason,
  so arguably it is their own ability causing them to wake to learn that they are now the Imp,
  thus registering to the Chambermaid.
  
  A reasonable way to run this interaction is to therefore ask why the SW is becoming the Imp:
  * if the SW is the only option (single Minion game / other Minions are dead) then the ST could rule that it is the Imp's ability turning the SW;
  * if the SW is not the only option but is prioritised ahead of another Minion who would have been turned then they have turned due to their own SW ability;
  * if the SW is not the only option but happens to be picked ahead of any other Minion then it is reasonable to treat that as the Imp's ability turning them.

Q What number does the Chambermaid learn if they pick the Demon and the Snake Charmer on the night that they swapped roles?
A One.
  The starting SC woke to charm the Demon, then as the new Demon they killed.
  The starting Demon did not wake to their own ability.

Q The Snake Charmer picks the Demon.
  The Chambermaid checks the new Demon, who did not wake as a part of the Demon's ability, but as a part of the Snake Charmer's ability.
  Is that a +1 to the Chambermaid?
A Yes.
  They were at one point in the night the Snake Charmer who woke as the Snake Charmer,
  which counts as waking to your own ability.

Q Does the Summoner waking N1 to receive bluffs register to the Chambermaid?
A Yes, they wake to their own ability, separately from the Minion info step.

Q The Demon chooses not to attack tonight to satisfy the Toymaker.
  Do they register as waking to the Chambermaid?
A No.

  The Chambermaid detects when characters wake to use their ability.
  Since the Demon did not use their ability to attack a player they do not ping the Chambermaid.

Q The Mastermind has triggered or there is a Zombuul registering as dead.
  At the Chambermaid's point in the night order there is only one other alive player, but their ability requires that they pick two other alive players.
  What happens?
A Tonight they get no info; the ST does not wake them.

Q If the Chambermaid chooses someone who died that same night, are they told to choose another player?
A Yes.  That will reveal to the Chambermaid one of their picks died,
  but the death is declared in the morning before anyone else should be talking so it does not matter.

Q If someone wakes and chooses not to use their ability (Professor / Philosopher / Courtier / Nightwatchman / ...) does it register to the Chambermaid?
A Yes, they still woke to their own ability.
  If a player has a once-per-game ability,
  they wake up each night for their own ability so that they can choose to use it or not.
  Once it is used, they stop waking, so the Chambermaid can verify if a OPG ability has been used.

------------------ combine?
Q Does a Minion learning they are now the Imp alert the Chambermaid?
A No, since a player learning that they have changed character is not waking to their own ability, it is just game mechanics.


Q Does a Minion / the Demon waking up to learn their new role after an Engineer swap ping the Chambermaid?
A Only if they wake due to their new ability.
-------------------------

Q Does any character waking to learn of a change in alignment count for the Chambermaid, or just the Goon and the Cult Leader?
A The Chambermaid only learns if the character woke due to their own power.
  So the Mezepheles turning someone, for example, does not count for the Chambermaid.

Q Does the Goon waking to learn she switched alignment register to the Chambermaid?
  And if the Goon is already the same alignment as what she would have changed to, does it count for the Chambermaid?
A If the Goon wakes to learn their alignment changed due to her ability,
  then this registers to the Chambermaid.
  If she did not change alignment because the first person to pick her has the same alignment,
  then she would not have woken so no registering to the Chambermaid.
  If the Goon changes alignment through other means than their ability, such as Mezepheles,
  then this waking does not register to the Chambermaid.

Q Can the Chambermaid ping falsely off of misregistering characters (Spy / Recluse)?
A No, they correctly learn that the Spy wakes and the Recluse does not.

  Misregistration does not grant the abilities nor the waking pattern of the misregistered role.
  * The Spy who is alive and sees the Grimoire woke to their own ability, and misregistration cannot change this fact or stop the Chambermaid from getting a correct ping.
  * The Recluse who misregisters as the Demon does not actually wake up to kill and does not incorrectly ping the Chambermaid.

Q Can the drunk or poisoned Chambermaid pick dead players?
A Technically they can, but since a drunk or poisoned player should be deceived that their ability is functioning normally they should not.

-----------combine?
Q Does the Demon who swaps with their Minion after they attack the Barber register as having woken to their ability for the Chambermaid?
A Yes, at one point in the night they woke to an ability that was theirs at the time.

Q Does the Pit-Hag who turns himself into a non-waking character register to the Chambermaid?
A Yes. That player woke to an ability that they had at some point that night.

Q Does the Chambermaid detect a player as having woken to their ability if after they have used it they are swapped to a non-waking character?
A Yes.  That player woke to an ability that they had at some point that night.
-------------------


======
=Chef=
======
Q With the seating of Demon-Recluse-Minion-Minion, what could the Chef be shown?
A The Chef number could be any of 1, 2, or 3 with this seating,
  as the Recluse can register as good for one pair and evil for the other pair to the Chef's ability.


==========
=Choirboy=
==========
Q Can the King be the Drunk or the Marionette if the Choirboy is in play?
A No, that would be an illegal setup.

  If the player who thinks they are the King is actually the Drunk or the Marionette,
  then the King is out of play and the Choirboy's [setup ability] has not been satisfied.
  
  To avoid situations where the Demon is sat between a Minion and the King, leaving no valid Marionette, 
  the ST should use an alternative setup.

Q Can the Choirboy be the Drunk or the Marionette if the King is in play?
A Yes, this is a legitimate setup, 
  where the King has not been forced into play by the Choirboy, they are there by their own right.

Q If the Choirboy is in the game, the King is not allowed to be the Drunk or the Marionette,
  but is it possible to have the King turned evil by the Bounty Hunter?
A Yes.

Q What does the Choirboy see in a Legion game?
A Any of the living Legion players.

Q What does the Choirboy learn in a Lil' Monsta game?
A The Choirboy would be shown the person babysitting Lil' Monsta the rest of that night
  and the next day because Lil' Monsta's kill and therefore the Choirboy's information comes after the babysitter is chosen.

Q If the Pukka targets the King and then the following night picks the Choirboy, does the Choirboy get poisoned info?
A Yes.

  The King would die as the previously poisoned player after the Pukka makes their next pick.
  That pick being the Choirboy means that they are poisoned when they awake and can therefore receive arbitrary info, before dying the following night.

Q Could the Choirboy be shown the Recluse after the King is killed by the Demon?
A Yes, though that is unlikely to be a fair move,
  especially if the Choirboy's convincingly bluffed something else so the Demon does not think the Choirboy is in play.

Q If the Spy is killed by the Demon, could they misregister as the King and cause the Choirboy to learn the Demon's identity?
A Yes, but that would probably not be fun for anyone.

Q If a multi-kill Demon (Al-Hadikhia / Po / Shabaloth) chooses the Choirboy after the King as part of the same selection, can the Choirboy learn the Demon?
A Yes.  Order matters: if the King dies then the Choirboy is woken and told the Demon player, even if the Choirboy then dies later as part of the same selection.

Q In a two Minion game on a script with the Marionette, the King, and the Choirboy, after the roles are randomly assigned,
  the Demon ends up neighbouring one Minion and the King, who must become the Marionette, but the Choirboy is still in play.
  An illegal setup!  How can this be avoided?  Remove the King from the bag and put it back later as you do in a three Minion game?
A The better move is to not have the Demon in the bag. 
  Switching someone's token to the King would let a good player know an out of play role.

Q If the King is killed then resurrected (Professor / Shabaloth / Al-Hadikhia / ...) then dies again, does the Choirboy get their info each time?
A The Choirboy learns the Demon each time the King is killed by the Demon.

Q If the King is Barber swapped with a dead player, does the Choirboy get their info?
A No, the King was not killed by the Demon.

Q If the King is killed by a non Demon
  (Apprentice / Assassin / Butcher / Cerenovus / Godfather / Gossip / Gunslinger / Harlot / Judge / Lycanthrope / Moonchild / Pit-Hag / Virgin / Witch / ...),
  does the Choirboy learn the Demon?
A No, except if the player that kills the King is holding Lil' Monsta at the time and so registers as the Demon.

Q The Demon kill bounces off the Mayor to the King.  Does the Choirboy get their info?
A Yes.  A bounce off the Mayor is treated as full redirection of the entire ability,
  so it is as if the Demon directly chose the King.

Q Who does the Choirboy learn if the Vortox kills the King?
A Any non-Demon player.

Q Can the Choirboy's [+King] setup ability replace an Outsider?
A No, all modifications (Baron / Balloonist / Fang Gu / ...) are done to Townsfolk.

Q If the Demon kills the King could the drunk or poisoned Choirboy not be woken up to simulate a different source of the death?
A Yes.

Q Can the drunk or poisoned Choirboy be woken and shown and an incorrect Demon player?
A Yes.

  If a player dies at night, regardless of the source of the kill and whether they are the King or not,
  the drunk or poisoned Choirboy can be deceived.
  Should the Choirboy be sober and healthy on a later night when the King dies to the Demon
  then they will wake again to learn true info.
  
  Similar deception is also possible when the Drunk or Marionette believes that they are the Choirboy.

  The ST should consider the implications of doing so but, if done right, the deception can be a fun and interesting choice.


============
=Clockmaker=
============
Q If the single Minion in a game is the Spy misregistering as a Townsfolk/Outsider, what is the Clockmaker told?
---  What is the Clockmaker told if the Kazali chooses as their single Minion the player who is the Soldier?  KAZALI SOLDIER JINX WAS CHANGED!
A When there is no way to get a step count between the Minion and the Demon, 
  the ST shakes their head to indicate that there is no valid info.

Q Can the Clockmaker learn a zero?
A Yes.

  If the Clockmaker sees either no Demons or no Minions, the ST simply shakes their head to indicate there is no valid information to give and puts her back to sleep.

  In SnV if they are poisoned, drunk or the Vortox is in play then they can receive a zero,
  but it would be an immediate giveaway that one of those things is the case due to it normally being impossible.

  Outside of SnV: 
  * a one Minion game with the Spy can give the Clockmaker a no;
  * in a Legion game, they should get the number of steps between the two closest Legion players, which is usually one;
  * in a Lil' Monsta game, they should see the number of steps between the babysitter, who is usually a Minion, and the nearest non-babysitting Minion;
  * the Summoner turns themself into the Demon on N3 means giving the Clockmaker a no.

Q What is the interaction between the Recluse and the Clockmaker?
A The Recluse can register as a Minion or a Demon to make a smaller Clockmaker number than there should be,
  but if a Minion and a Demon were sat right next to each other the ST could not use the Recluse to give a larger number to the Clockmaker.

Q If the Clockmaker is created mid game (Barber / Cannibal / Philosopher / Pit-Hag / Pixie / ...), do dead players count as spaces?
A Yes.

Q Does the Clockmaker count Travellers when calculating steps?
A Yes, as the Clockmaker counts "the number of seated players".

Q When there is more than one living Demon, how does a mid game Clockmaker work?
A All living Demons count as "the Demon" and the Clockmaker specifically checks for the smallest number of steps between one of these and their nearest Minion.


==========
=Courtier=
==========
Q The Philosopher chooses Alchemist and gains the Scarlet Woman ability.
  Does the Courtier drinking with the Scarlet Woman the night before the Demon is executed
  prevent the Philosopher Alchemist Scarlet Woman from becoming the Demon?
A No, the Courtier would need to drink with the Philo to stop her from becoming the Demon.

  The Courtier drinking with the:
  * Scarlet Woman: prevents the actual SW, if there is one, from becoming the Demon but the Philo would become a good Demon;
  * Alchemist: makes the Alchemist, if there is one, drunk from two sources, the Philosopher and now the Courtier, and the Philo still becomes a good Demon;
  * Philosopher: blocks the creation of a good Demon and sobers the actual Alchemist if there is one, but the game is now likely over.

Q Can an ability gaining (Apprentice / Boffin / Cannibal / Philosopher / Pixie) be drunk if the Courtier chooses the character whose ability was gained?
A No.  Gaining the ability of a character does not make a player that character, they remain the character on their token.

Q The Courtier chooses to drunk an out of play Minion.  However the Alchemist has that Minion's ability.  Is the Alchemist drunk?
A No.  The Courtier drunks a character and if they are out of play, no one becomes drunk.
  While the Alchemist has a Minion ability, they are not that Minion, they are the Alchemist, so they do not become drunk.

Q If the Courtier drunk Demon dies turning the Scarlet Woman, is the new Demon also Courtier drunk?
A No, the Courtier drunkenness does not migrate; it stays on the targeted player for the full three days. The new Demon is not made drunk, at least not by the Courtier.
  The Courtier essentially uses the character to choose the player.

Q What happens if the player made drunk by the Courtier changes character (Barber / Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / Summoner / ...)?
A They stay drunk.

  The Courtier chooses a player via their character and once they have chosen the drunkenness is tied to the player, regardless of any character changes.

Q What is the interaction between the Courtier and the Lunatic?
A The Lunatic is still deceived that they are the Demon, but the actual Demon does not learn the Lunatic's choices.

Q If there are multiple copies of the same character in play (Fang Gu / Imp / Legion / Riot / Village Idiot /  ...) and the Courtier chooses that character,
  are they all drunk?
A Just one. The ST chooses one player with that character to become drunk.

Q What happens when a Courtier is drunk or poisoned while their ability is active?
  Does the day still tick by, or is their ability effectively paused?
A If the Courtier was sober and healthy when they used their ability, then their token is placed down. 
  If they become drunk or poisoned then, while they are droisoned, their target is no longer Courtier-drunk.
  If they become sober and healthy again before the three days run out, the target is once again drunk.
  While the Courtier is droisoned, the timer continues to count down,
  so if the timer runs out before they become sober and healthy again, the target is simply not going to become Courtier drunk again.

Q The Courtier drunks an out of play character that then comes in to play (Pit-Hag / Hatter / Engineer / ...).  Is the player with that character now drunk?
A No. The Courtier's drunkenness is applied, or not, to a player at the time of the choice, and will not change after the fact even if characters are changed.

Q If the Courtier dies before the three days are over, does the drunkenness end?
A Yes, unless otherwise stated, players lose their ability on death, so any drunkenness caused by the Courtier ends when she dies.

Q The Courtier drunks the Leviathan and for three days players execute good players with no fear.
  What happens when the Leviathan becomes sober? Evil team wins?
A Assuming the Courtier remains sober, healthy and alive then:
  If N1 the Courtier hits the Leviathan (at which point, town actually do not know it is a Leviathan game, because making the Leviathan drunk suppresses the announcement).
  then only on day 4 is the announcement made, and the Leviathan has seen nothing,
  meaning the good team has two chances left to hit the Leviathan, 
  or loses because of time (since it will be the end of Day 5 after the second execution).
  If N2 the Leviathan is drunk,
  then she will need to be executed on day 5 or good will lose on time/executions.
  If the Leviathan is drunk any later point than that,
  then good loses as soon as the Levi is sober. 

Q Can the Courtier drunk fabled characters?
A No.

  The Courtier drunks players with the character that they pick, 
  and as no player can be assigned a fabled character, only those listed on the character sheet,
  the Courtier is unable to drunk a fabled character.

Q If the Cannibal Courtier chooses the Demon, but then a non-Courtier is executed, will the Demon become sober?
A Yes.


=============
=Cult Leader=
=============
Q On N1, could the Cult Leader sat between two good players be turned evil by the Bounty Hunter then turn good again due to their own ability?
A Yes.

Q What happens when the Cult Leader says the Mezepheles word?
A If the Cult Leader is evil, nothing happens.

  If the Cult Leader is good and is the first good player to say the Mez word, she turns evil that night.
  The Cult Leader still has her own ability, so may turn good or evil according to her neighbours.
  Interestingly the Cult Leader acts after the Mez in the night order, so she may switch from good to evil, then back to good in the same night.

Q If the Cult Leader is turned evil by the Mezepheles, can they later turn good again with their own ability?
A Yes.

Q Can the Recluse registering as evil turn the Cult Leader evil?
A Yes.

Q By dawn, the sober, healthy Cult Leader, the Demon, and a Minion are alive. Mechanically, must the game be over?
A No. The Cult Leader does not know who the Demon is for sure and could possibly still accidentally nominate the Demon and lose.

Q If the Cult Leader changes their alignment, do they learn that immediately that night?
A Yes.

Q Can a cult be called for mid nomination?
A Yes.

Q Can the Cult Leader call for a cult multiple times a day?
A Only once per day.


========
=Damsel=
========
Q Can the Damsel player be seen by the Balloonist twice, first as an Outsider and then, post-Huntsman-transformation, as a Townsfolk?
A Yes.

Q Does the bone collected Damsel give Minions another Damsel guess?
A Yes, so the Damsel who outted after dying will watch on in terror as the Bone Collector comes into town ...
  but starting with one in town the Damsel will know to hide.

Q If the Courtier drunks the Damsel, what happens when the Damsel is chosen by the Huntsman?
A The Damsel becomes a Townsfolk and, since they are no longer the Damsel, they are no longer Courtier drunk.

Q Why does the Damsel appear in the night order if they are announced during Minion info?
A Their spot in the night order is when they would change character in the case of a successful Huntsman guess.

Q After the Damsel is transformed by the Huntsman, what do character checking abilities (Dreamer/Gambler/Ravenkeeper/Undertaker/Harlot/...) see?
A The see the new character post-transformation, not the Damsel.

Q The Huntsman transforms the Damsel into a Townsfolk.  The former Damsel is Barber swapped with another player.  Does the other player become the Damsel?
A No, they become what the character that the former Damsel became, as the Damsel has changed, not just gained an ability.

Q Can the Huntsman-transformed-Damsel be Fang Gu jumped?
A No, as they are no longer an Outsider.

Q If the Huntsman-transformed-Damsel is executed, does the Godfather get a kill that night?
A No, as they are no longer an Outsider.

Q Can the Damsel be the Marionette if the Huntsman is in play?
A No, but the Huntsman is allowed to be the Marionette.

Q Can the Damsel who is hosting the Lleech still be transformed by the Huntsman?
A Yes, and they continued to be poisoned.

Q Does a correctly guessed Damsel change character twice if they have been Barista doubled?
A No.

Q If the Philosopher picks the ability of an out of play character, then the Damsel is turned by the Huntsman into that character, what happens?
A The Philo makes the ex-Damsel drunk.

Q If the ST gains a Minion ability via the Plague Doctor, can they guess the Damsel?
A No, the ST is not a Minion.

Q If the Professor resurrects the Damsel, do the Minions relearn the Damsel?
A The Damsel is an Outsider so cannot be resurrected by the Professor.

Q What happens when an evil Townsfolk or Outsider (Bounty Hunter / Mezepheles / ...) guesses the Damsel?
A Nothing, because they are not a Minion. The guess is not used.

Q The Huntsman guesses the Cannibal / Philosopher with the Damsel ability as the Damsel.  Is that player turned?
A No, having the Damsel ability does not make the player the Damsel.

Q If a new instance of the Damsel enters play (Barber / Cannibal / Philosopher / ...), do the Minions get a fresh Damsel ping?
A No, they already knew the Damsel was in play so they are not informed again; 
  the announcement is once per game no matter how many instances of the Damsel or their ability are created.

Q If a new instance of the Damsel enters play (Barber / Cannibal / Philosopher / ...), can the Minions guess the Damsel again if they previously used their guess?
A Yes.  But as they are not reinformed of the Damsel being in play they may not realise they have a fresh guess.

Q What happens if, after the Cannibal eats the Damsel, a Minion guesses the Cannibal as the Damsel?
A Evil wins.

  When the Cannibal is on the script it is safer for the Damsel player to not reveal their true identity until after the next execution.

Q In order to correctly guess the Philosopher Damsel or the Cannibal Damsel, what does a Minion have to say? "X is the Philo/Cannibal" or "X is the Damsel" or either?
A A Minion must guess "X is the Damsel".

  The "you" in abilities always refers to the player's ability, not their character.

Q What stops players from insisting that everyone publicly guesses themself as the Damsel to prove that they are not a Minion to waste the Damsel guess?
A The ST is advised to ignore any forced statements.

Q Does each Minion get an individual Damsel guess?
A No.  The Minions collectively get one guess.

Q In a base two Outsiders game with the Huntsman, and no other Outsider manipulation, how many Outsiders comprise a legal setup?
A Two or three:
  * two if the Damsel is one of the regular base two Outsiders
  * three if the Damsel replaces a Townsfolk, i.e. adding the Damsel with the Huntsman on top of the normal Outsider count.
  
  Most players prefer it if the Damsel replaces one of the regular Outsiders rather than a Townsfolk for fun and balance purposes,
  but it is fine to do it sometimes.

Q Can the evil Apprentice guess the Damsel.
A No, they may have a Minion ability, but they are not a Minion.

Q What happens if the Damsel is resurrected (Al-Hadikhia / Shabaloth / ...)?
A The Minions are not reinformed about the Damsel, as it is a once per game announcement.
  However, if there is a new Minion who has not previously been informed they would be informed,
  in which case it is best to not resurrect the Damsel using the Shabaloth.
 
  If guesses have been made previous to the Damsel resurrection,
  they do not count for this new instance of the Damsel ability,
  so the Minions have one more opportunity to guess the Damsel.
  
Q If the Damsel is chosen by the Bone-Collector, what happens?
A The Minions are not reinformed about the Damsel, as it is a once per game announcement.
  However, if there is a new Minion who has not previously been informed they would be informed.

  If guesses have been made previous to the Damsel's bones being collected,
  they do not count for this new instance of the Damsel ability,
  so the Minions have one more opportunity to guess the Damsel.

Q Does a Minion babysitting Lil' Monsta, therefore registering as the Demon, still learn if the Damsel is in play?
A Yes.

Q Can a Minion babysitting Lil' Monsta's guess the Damsel?
A Yes.

Q Can a Legion player guess the Damsel?
A Yes, as Legion players register as Minions.

Q Can the Witch who has lost their ability at three players left alive still guess the Damsel?
A Yes.

Q What is the Damsel jinx with the Spy/Widow?
A If the Spy or the Widow is or has been in play, the Damsel is poisoned.

  If the Damsel player becomes poisoned in this way then swaps character,
  then as they are no longer the Damsel the poisoning ends.

Q Can an Imp who was a Minion guess the Damsel?
A No.

Q Can the Damsel be the Good Twin to the Evil Twin?
A Yes ... but that could end the game very quickly!

  This might be a good idea if the Courtier, the Heretic or the Spy/Widow are on the script,
  so that instantly guessing the Damsel is not the automatic best move to make.

Q If the Damsel is Barber swapped to another player, do the Minions get another Damsel announcement?
A No, it is a once per game announcement.

  But any newly created Minions who were not previously informed are now told.
  This can result in a very bad day for the evil team if the Damsel is swapped with a Minion,
  as the good ex-Damsel-now-Minion knows somewhere there is an evil Damsel and,
  based on whether they are told that the Damsel is in play,
  would know whether the evil now-Damsel is alive or not and whether they can therefore be guessed to win the game.

Q Does the Monk protecting the Damsel prevent an evil win should a Minion make a correct guess?
A No, unless in the unlikely situation where the Minion is holding Lil' Monsta and guesses at night.
 
  The Monk protects against the Demon, not Minions, and only at night,
  so Monk protection does not prevent a correct Minion guess of a Damsel ending the game.  

Q Does the Poppy Grower stop the Minions learning that the Damsel is in the game?
A No.

Q Can a preached Minion still make a successful Damsel guess?
A Yes, a Minion with no ability is still a Minion.

Q Does the Magician learn that there is a Damsel in the game?
A No, they are not actually a Minion, nor can they guessing the Damsel have any effect.

Q Can the dead Damsel still be guessed?
A No.

  The Damsel must be alive in order to trigger their loss condition;
  once they are dead they have no ability so being guessed correctly can no longer cause their team to lose.

  Conversely, a dead Minion is free to guess the living Damsel; although dead they are still a Minion which is the only requirement for triggering the Damsel's loss condition.

Q If the drunk or poisoned Damsel is correctly guessed by a Minion, does their team still lose?
A No, the game continues and the guess is used up.

Q If the Damsel is N1 drunk / poisoned do Minions still learn that the Damsel is in play?
A Yes, unless the Damsel is drunk due to the Puzzlemaster's setup ability.

  Puzzlemaster drunkenness would prevent the Minions learning the Damsel, as the Damsel is drunk during N1 setup.
  Other sources of drunkenness / poisoning act after the Minion info step in the night order so cannot prevent the Minions learning the Damsel.

  With that understood, using the Puzzlemaster to make the Damsel drunk is not recommended,
  since as an Outsider the Puzzlemaster is supposed to hinder the good team,
  not harm the evil team by removing a win condition.

Q If the Damsel is in play, when do Minions learn this?
A If the Damsel is in play from the start then N1, during the Minion info step.
  If the Damsel is created mid game then the Minions are informed after the Damsel is created.

Q Does a Minion created mid game learn that the Damsel is in play?
A Yes, regardless of their alignment, assuming the Damsel is alive, sober and healthy.

Q If the Marionette thinks they are the Damsel, do the other Minions learn that the Damsel is in play?
A No.

Q What is the Marionette jinx with the Damsel?
A The Marionette does not learn the Damsel is in play.
  Otherwise they would quickly determine that they are a Minion.

Q Can the Minions Damsel guess at night?
A Yes.

-----------------generalise
Q If the Damsel swaps player or is resurrected/regurgitated there is no new Damsel announcement.
  But what if they leave play then reenter?
A No.  Players who know something do not relearn it, even when the ability leaves and reenters play.
  Only any Minion who was previously aware of the Damsel is informed.

Q Can the Pit-Hag create a new Damsel if the previous Damsel was successfully turned by the Huntsman?
A Yes.  The new Damsel is assigned by the ST, as per the jinx.
  This player need not be alive, but if they are and sober and healthy then they are announced to any Minion who was not informed of the previous Damsel.
  As the Huntsman has already used their OPG ability, there is no possiblity of this Damsel being saved.


==================
=Devil's Advocate=
==================
Q Can the Devil's Advocate protect from an execution due to breaking madness (Cerenovus / Mutant)?
A Yes.

Q Is the self-protecting Devil's Advocate who became the new Imp after the previous one self-killed, safe from execution tomorrow?
A No.  After becoming the Imp, the Devil's Advocate became out of play so the protection is gone.

Q If the Devil's Advocate protects the Zombuul and then the Zombuul kills themself the same night, does the protection remain or disappear?
A It remains, so double tapping the Zombuul player that day will not end the game!

Q Is there a way for the Devil's Advocate to protect the same player for two days in a row?
A A new instance of the DA, created via the Barber swap, is free to choose whomever they want, which could be the same player the previous DA chose.

Q There are three players alive at the end of the day: the Pukka, the Devil's Advocate and the Sailor. 
  At night the Sailor chooses the DA and the ST makes the DA drunk.
  The DA chooses to protect the Pukka and the Pukka chooses the Sailor, making them poisoned.
  The next day the Pukka is executed.
  Does the Pukka die?
A Yes, because at the time the DA chose to protect the Pukka the DA was drunk, so they did not protect the Pukka. 


===========
=Doomsayer=
===========
Q Can the Spy invoking the Doomsayer kill a good player?
A Yes, the Recluse and the Spy, due to registering as good or evil, can result in a Doomsayer death of any alignment.
  The Spy and the Recluse can also both die to anyone using the Doomsayer as well.
  The Storyteller can make use of this for game balance.

Q Can the Vizier die to the Doomsayer?
A No, so evil players must be careful when doomsaying with a Vizier in play since they either kill their own Demon as the only remaining evil option to die
  or have no one die because the ST targets the Vizier with the Doomsayer ability.

Q If the only living good player uses the Doomsayer, is the game over?
A Almost certainly.

  If a player doomsays when they are the only player of their alignment left, they die.
  If the last living good player dies then the game is usually over, unless there is a reason to continue.

Q Can the Doomsayer kill the invoking player?
A Yes.

Q What happens when a Minion doomsays and the only other living evil player is the Demon?
A It would usually make sense to kill the Minion in that scenario,
  unless killing the Demon does not result in the immediate end of the game.


=========
=Dreamer=
=========
Q What are considered to be 'good' and 'evil' characters
  when the Dreamer targets an evil Townsfolk / Outsider or a good Minion / Demon
  (Barber / Bounty Hunter / Mezepheles / Pit-Hag / ...)?
A "Good character" and "evil character" actually have definitions in the game that are not about the alignment of the player:
  * "Good" characters are Townsfolk and Outsiders - blue tokens.
  * "Evil" characters are Demons and Minions - red tokens.

  So the Dreamer is always shown a Townsfolk / Outsider for one character and a Minion / Demon for the other:
  * the Bounty Hunter / Mezepheles turned Townsfolk is still Dreamer seen as that Townsfolk token correctly or any Minion/Demon token incorrectly, even though they are now evil;
  * a good Minion could be seen as any Townsfolk/Outsider incorrectly and their Minion token correctly.

Q Could the Dreamer who picked the Recluse see a character other than the Recluse for their good character?
A Yes.

Q Can the Dreamer choose the same player repeatedly?
A Yes, the Dreamer's only restriction is not themself and not Travellers.
  Picking the same player would likely result in the ST giving them the same answers,
  unless the Demon switches to/from the Vortox or drunkenness / poisoning is involved.

Q Why is the Dreamer not allowed to select Travellers?
A The Dreamer must see a good character and an evil character,
  but Travellers are neither good characters nor evil characters
  so it is impossible to satisfy the constraints of the Dreamer's ability and for the Dreamer to learn the Traveller's character.

  Additionally, it would making confirming the Vortox far too easy.


=======
=Drunk=
=======
Q When does the Drunk who believes that they are the Alchemist Godfather wake?
A On their first night they wake to learn that they are the Godfather and told some Outsiders are in play.
  On subsequent nights they can be woken to suggest that a player who died during the day is an Outsider,
  or not woken to suggest that they were an evil player lying about being an Outsider.
  They should probably not wake if no one died during the day.

Q Is the character that the Marionette or the Drunk thinks that they are considered in play?
A No.

Q What happens if the Drunk is drunk or poisoned?
A Nothing.

  Any drunk or poisoned player is deceived that their ability is still working.
  The Drunk's ability is that they believe that they are a Townsfolk, so they just get treated like the Townsfolk they think they are.

Q Can the Drunk who believes that they are the Clockmaker be woken on N3 to simulate a Summoner game, when in fact the Demon is in play from N1?
A Yes.

Q Is the Drunk affected by the Vortox? / Can the Drunk receive true info in a Vortox game?
A _The_ Drunk is actually an Outsider, deceived into thinking that they are a Townsfolk,
  and Outsiders are unaffected by the Vortox's ability,
  meaning any info the Drunk receives can be true.
  Many players consider this to be a fun interaction.
  It is possible that the Drunk could end up being the only source of true information in a Vortox game.

  However, in a game with a sober, healthy and living Vortox, the drunk or poison status of Townsfolk is irrelevant - their abilities _must_ yield false info,
  including any ability that the player thinks they gained but did not because they were drunk or poisoned at the time (Cannibal / Damsel / Philosopher / Pixie / ...).

Q Can an Outsider be the Drunk?
A An Outsider can be drunk but they cannot be _the_ Drunk, as the Drunk must believe that they are a Townsfolk.

Q Does the dead Drunk have an ability? For example, the Drunk who thinks that they are the Ravenkeeper.
A The Drunk who believes they are the Ravenkeeper is woken when they die.

----------------combine
Q On a script with character changers (Barber / Pit-Hag / ...) 
  it is legal to tell the Drunk that they have changed character to a different Townsfolk,
  because it still satisfies the "you think you are a Townsfolk" part of the Drunk's ability?
A Yes, as long as the ST makes them still think that they are a Townsfolk,
  it is fine to deceive them into thinking they changed.
  It is real fun to make them think they got turned into the Farmer sometimes.

Q Can the ST tell the Drunk that they turned into another Townsfolk character to the one they currently believe they are, to simulate the Pit-Hag?
A Yes.
----------------------------

-----------------------
Q Does the Drunk who believes that they are a Townsfolk with [setup modifiers] (Balloonist / Bounty Hunter / Huntsman)
  still modify the setup (add the Damsel / +1 Outsider / make a Townsfolk evil) ?
A No.

  But note that once the decision has been made to make the Drunk a character with [setup modifiers],
  no other Townsfolk can be made the Drunk for a valid setup.

Q Can the ST decide which character the Drunk is after the tokens are distributed?
A If the character has setup abilities that could change the Outsiders (Balloonist / Huntsman)
  then it should be decided that they will be the Drunk before tokens go in the bag,
  because the Drunk does not have the setup ability that would change the Outsider count.
  This decision cannot then change after token distribution,
  to avoid an illegal setup.
  
  The Bounty Hunter can be made the Drunk after tokens are drawn,
  because the Bounty Hunter's setup effect does not actually require the Storyteller to change what tokens are going into the bag.
  The Bounty Hunter's setup effect is simply waking a Townsfolk and telling them that they are evil,
  so in the case of the Drunk BH the ST just does not wake up a Townsfolk to tell them that they are evil.

  Otherwise it is up to the ST.
  Most STs assign the Drunk once tokens have been handed out and know the Grimoire, allowing them to balance the game much better.
  The entry for the Drunk states "while preparing the first night", which would be once tokens are already handed out.
  But it is also fine for the ST to decide beforehand to make the Drunk a specific character regardless of token distribution.

---------------------combine
--Drunk can be told any role; does not need to be shown anything
Q If the Drunk or the Marionette is created mid game (Pit-Hag), can they be shown an already in play character?
A Yes, it is just on setup that the Drunk and the Marionette cannot see a role already in play.

Q If a player becomes the Drunk (Barber / Pit-Hag / ...) what does the ST tell them?
A The ST shows them any Townsfolk token from the script.
  If they were previously a Townsfolk the ST can choose to tell them nothing.
-------------------------------------------

Q Can the Drunk/Marionette think that they are an in play character?
A At the start of the game no, unless it is a Bootlegger game or a it is a character which can start with multiples in play (Village Idiot).

  The Drunk must believe that they are a Townsfolk and the Mario any good character.
  At setup this is achieved by substituting their token with another Townsfolk/Outsider token.
  It is due to the physical limitations of the game that the Drunk and the Mario tend to see an out of play character; most characters only come with one token.
  Village Idiot is an exception: it is allowed for the Drunk/Marionette to believe that they are a VI even when there are real VIs in game.

  Should the Drunk/Mario be created mid game (Barber / Pit-Hag) they can legally see an in play token, although they probably should not.
  The ST should inform their players how they run this.

Q Is the Drunk, drunk?
A Yes.

  The Drunk registers as drunk to any abilities that are concerned with drunkenness.
  So the sober and healthy Acrobat picking the living Drunk will die.

Q Does gaining the Drunk's ability (Cannibal / Philosopher) make the player drunk, triggering the Acrobat's death?
A Yes.

  As the Drunk registers as drunk for the Acrobat, any player gaining the Drunk ability does too.

Q If one of a hate jinxed pair of characters is actually the Drunk,
  then can the other character in the hate jinx be in play?
A Yes, since only one of the abilities in the hate jinx is really in play this is allowed.
  But the ST must remember to make one of the hate jinxed pair the Drunk;
  another character is not allowed to be the Drunk otherwise the result is an illegal setup.


=========
=Duchess=
=========
Q Can a Traveller visit the Duchess?
A Yes.  Each day, three players may visit the Duchess and a Traveller is a player.

Q Can dead players visit the Duchess?
A Yes, anyone may visit the Duchess.


========
=Empath=
========
Q Does the Empath learn their neighbour even if they die at night?
A No, the Empath only learns their living neighbours at their turn in the night order.


==========
=Engineer=
==========
Q Can the Engineer affect the Alchemist's Minion ability?
A If the Engineer causes the Alchemist to have an in play Minion ability,
  then the Alchemist will need to swap to an out of play one.
  Otherwise, since the Alchemist is not a Minion, they just have the ability of one, they are unaffected by the Engineer.

Q What happens to the babysitter if the Engineer swaps Lil' Monsta to another Demon?
A The current babysitter becomes that Demon instead of whatever character they were previously.

Q Can the Engineer choose Lil' Monsta to be in play?
A Yes, the former Demon becomes an out of play Minion of the ST's choice and is babysitting Lil' Monsta.

Q The Bounty Hunter is in play, and the Engineer is evil. 
  The three Minions decide to pass Lil' Monsta to the Engineer.
  The Engineer changes the Demon. 
  Does this game now have three Minions and one Demon?
A Yes, the current babysitter becomes the Demon. Their alignment does not change, so they remain evil.

Q What is the Legion jinx with the Engineer?
A Legion and the Engineer cannot both be in play at the start of the game.
  If the Engineer creates Legion, most players (including all evil players) become evil Legion.

  Additionally, as Demon and Minion info has past, the Legion players will not all know each other.

Q The Engineer puts the Marionette in play.  How is this run?
A One of the Minions is informed that they have become a Townsfolk or Outsider and are treated as such.
  They are not told nothing about their alignment as it has not changed.

Q What does the Marionette learn if they are swapped to another Minion by the Engineer?
A The former Mario is shown the "you are" info token and their new Minion character.
  They would be told nothing about their alignment as it has not changed.

Q The Pit-Hag turns himself into an evil Townsfolk, then the Engineer chooses which Minions exist.  Does the ex PH turn back into a Minion?
A No, the ex PH remains an evil Townsfolk.
  The Engineer does not change character types; the ST accepts however many Minions she picks to not make it obvious, but only makes use of the first few.
  so the Engineer would simply fail to create whatever Minion she chose.

Q Can the Recluse misregister when the Engineer is picking the Demon or the Minions?
A Yes, but don't.

  Registering the Recluse as a Minion or as the Demon could cause them to be changed by the Engineer, or affect which characters are changed.
  But the Recluse is an Outsider so it is best not to use their ability like this.

Q What happens when there are multiple instances of the Demon (Fang Gu / Imp) when the Engineer picks the new Demon?
A All Demon players change character.

Q Are evil Townsfolk or Outsiders (Mezepheles / Bounty Hunter / ...) affected by the Engineer's picks?
A No, only the Minions or the Demon.


===========
=Evil Twin=
===========
Q What happens when the Evil Twin is Barber swapped with another Minion?
A The new Evil Twin player is paired with an opposing player and they both learn each other.

Q Would the Evil Twin learn if the Good Twin is actually the Drunk?
A Yes.

  When the Good Twin is actually the Drunk,
  the Evil Twin would be shown the Drunk token,
  not whatever the Good Twin thinks they are.

Q The Townsfolk neighbour sat next to the No Dashii is turned by the Pit-Hag into the Evil Twin.
  What info do they receive?
A They are now a good Minion, so the No Dashii poisoning moves past them to the next Townsfolk player.
  As they are now no longer poisoned, they are correctly told their twin: an evil player and their character.

Q If the Recluse is the Good Twin is a Twin change triggered if they misregister as evil?
A Only if they ever misregistered to the ET as evil.

  The Recluse is able to register as different things to different characters independently.
  So the ST could misregister them to good abilities but register them normally to the ET so never trigger the Twin change.

Q Does the game end if the only two living players are the Twins?
A Yes, evil wins.

  Although no win conditions have been met in that scenario 
  STs usually end the game if the Demon and the Twins are still alive as it is basically impossible for good to win at that point.
  Evil does not explicitly require the Demon to survive to final two to win.
  They just usually do, since good wins if there are no alive Demons.
  But the Evil Twin specifically prevents that win from happening so long as both twins are alive.
  So despite the Demon being dead, as only two players left alive is evil's win condition, evil wins.

Q Could the Twins ever get bad information?
  i.e. is it possible that they think the other twin is someone else other than their actual twin?
A The Sweetheart drunk player who is turned into the Evil Twin would learn wrong info,
  but would not cause anyone else to wake though, so only the drunk ET would get wrong info in this scenario.

Q If the Good Twin is executed while the Evil Twin ability is inactive through drunkenness, poisoning or preaching,
  do evil instantly win when the ET's ability resumes functioning?
A No, the Good Twin was executed while the ET ability was malfunctioning and it does not trigger retroactively.
  However, re-executing the Good Twin would trigger the regained ET ability.

Q If the Demon dies and the game continues due to the Evil Twin, what happens if the ET loses their ability (Courtier / Preacher / ...)?
A With no living Demon the good team instantly wins when the ET loses their ability.

Q The Evil Twin knows the role of a twinned good player.
  If the Pit-Hag turns a good player into the Evil Twin,
  does the resulting good aligned Evil Twin know the role of their twinned evil player?
A Yes.

Q Does the Evil Twin find out if their twin changes character (Barber / Pit-Hag)?
A Yes, the Evil Twin always knows the ability of their Good Twin, so should be immediately informed of their new character.
 
  However, the Good Twin is never updated should the Evil Twin player become another character.

Q The Pit-Hag turns a good player into the Evil Twin, who is then twinned with an evil player. 
  If the evil player is killed does that cause another evil player to become the evil aligned twin,
  since the Evil Twin is still alive and needs a counterpart?
A No.
  The Twins only change if the _alignment_ of one of them changes. It is allowable to have a dead twin.

Q The Evil Twin is drunk or poisoned on their first night.  How is this run?
A The ET is deceived as to their ability working, so they can be told an arbitrary player and a character.
  The actual Good Twin learns nothing, since their being informed is part of the ET's ability.
  When the ET is sober and healthy, if they learned incorrect info then they will learn the real info, and the Good Twin will learn the ET.
  While the ET is droisoned, executing the Good Twin does nothing.

  In SnV where the droisoned ET is rare, and impossible N1, STs will often wake the Twins together, and have them make eye contact.
  But on custom scripts where there is a chance of a droisoned ET it is best practice to wake the Twins separately,
  else the ET could be tipped off.

Q What happens if the Good Twin becomes evil (Mezepheles / Cult Leader / Goon / ...)? 
A If the Evil Twin is still alive and they are sober and healthy then a new Good Twin must be assigned.

  The Twins must always be of opposing alignment,
  so if they are ever the same,
  the Good Twin has to become someone else.
  The ST moves the reminder token to the a good player and wakes the ET with their new Good Twin that night and they learn each other's character.

  The previous twin is not informed that they are no longer a twin and that they now have nothing to do with the Evil Twin.

Q If a new Evil Twin is created (Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / ...) how is it run?
A Each twin wakes individually to learn who their twin is and their character.
  The Good Twin does not have to be alive and generally should not be if the Evil Twin is created late game,
  when the good team would not have enough executions to win.

  Note that the Good Twin is decided the moment that the Evil Twin comes in play,
  which does mean that the Good Twin could accidentally die the same night.

Q If the Good Twin is the only alive Demon and they are executed while the Evil Twin lives, who wins?
A Evil; win conditions via character abilities trump regular game win conditions.

  The Evil Twin win condition is met if the Good Twin is executed while the Evil Twin is alive.  Also, good cannot win while both twins are alive.
  So in this scenario there are two paths to victory for the good team:
  # assuming there are at least four alive, the Evil Twin dies, either executed or killed by the good Demon, removing the Evil Twin ability,
    then the Good Twin Demon can safely die, again either by execution of self-killing, removing the last Demon from the game.
  # the good Demon self-kills at night, assuming they are not the Pukka - no more living Demons and the Evil Twin ability is nullified.


==========
=Exorcist=
==========
Q Does the Exorcist picking the Demon stop all of their abilities?
A No.  Although the Demon does not wake to attack tonight, any other Demon abilities still work:
  * the Zombuul stays alive if they have fake died once, 
  * the player poisoned by the Pukka the previous night still dies,
  * the Shabaloth can still regurgitate a player.

Q What happens if the Exorcist picks the Lunatic?
A Nothing.  The ST is free to simulate what happens when the actual Demon is picked or they can completely ignore it.

Q Can the Lunatic be told that the Exorcist chose them?
A Yes.  Anything that the Demon could be told based on the characters on the script can be told to the Lunatic to aid with their deception.

  The Lunatic can be told that they were exorcised when the Exorcist:
  * picked them;
  * did not pick them;
  * is not even in play.

  A fake exorcism means that the Demon does not learn of the Lunatic's choice(s), because the Lunatic did not make any. 
  The Demon would not know why this is, as it is indistinguishable from the Lunatic just being drunk or poisoned that night.
  The ST can show any player as the fake Exorcist to the Lunatic.

  The ST must be cautious: if the Exorcist is in play they might publicly claim who they picked, 
  and if this differs to what the Lunatic was told,
  then this could be detrimental to the evil team.


=========
=Fang Gu=
=========
Q If the Fang Gu picks the Mayor and it bounces to an Outsider, do they jump?
A Yes, assuming there has been no jump yet, since the source of the attack is still considered to be the Fang Gu.

Q If the Fang Gu picks the Philosopher who chose an Outsider ability, does the Philo become the Fang Gu? 
A No. The Philosopher gains an Outsider ability, but does not become an Outsider.

Q Could the Pit-Hag turn their Demon into the Fang Gu, then create a chain of Outsiders for repeated Fang Gu jumps?
A No, the Fang Gu jump is uniquely a global once per game occurrence, not a once per instance of the character ability.

Q Could the Recluse misregister as a Minion or Demon to block the Fang Gu jump?
A Yes, the Recluse would just die instead.

Q If the Fang Gu hits the drunk or poisoned Recluse does she still jump?
A In that instance, the Fang Gu has to jump, because the Recluse would be unable to register as anything other than the Recluse, an Outsider.

Q Does the ST wake up the Outsider when the Fang Gu targets them?
A If the Fang Gu kills an Outsider without a jump being possible, the Outsider just dies and does not wake.
  If the Fang Gu jumps, the Outsider is woken and informed of their new alignment and character.

Q Is there anything in the game that can grant another Fang Gu jump?
A No, the Fang Gu jump is a hard once per game, no way around it.

  No amount of Pit-Hag transformations, revivals, Barber swaps, Hatter switches or Snake Charmer antics can change this.
  The Fang Gu has a unique global reminder token that is placed in the middle of the Grimoire if a jump happens
  and remains there even if the Fang Gu goes out of play and comes back in play.

Q Can the Fang Gu jump to a Monk-protected Outsider?
A No.

  The Monk protects against harmful effects such as death and being turned evil,
  so the Fang Gu cannot jump to an Outsider that cannot die.

Q What happens when the Fang Gu is protected (Innkeeper / Monk) and kills an Outsider for the first time? 
A The Fang Gu jump is a "package deal" so if they cannot die there is no jump and the Outsider dies.

  The once per game jump is not used up so if the Fang Gu later choose another Outsider while both are able to die, a jump can occur.

Q If the Pit-Hag turns himself into an Outsider and the Fang Gu kills him, does the jump happen?
A If it is the first Outsider the Fang Gu has killed, then yes.

Q Does the Fang Gu jump if they attack an Outsider in a Spirit of Ivory game where one good player has already turned evil (Bounty Hunter/ Cult Leader / Goon / Mezepheles / ...)?
A No, the Outsider just dies if they can and the Fang Gu's once per game jump is not used up as it never happened.

  Abilities that cannot resolve in full do not resolve at all,
  so if the Fang Gu cannot turn an Outsider evil, they also do not die or turn them into a Fang Gu.
  The Outsider then dies because this is a separate ability.

Q If the Fang Gu picks an Outsider with an on death triggered ability (Barber / Hatter / Sweetheart / ...) what happens?
A If the once per game jump has yet to happen and both characters can die,
  then the Fang Gu dies and the Outsider becomes the evil Fang Gu with the Outsider ability untriggered, as they did not die, they simply had their character and alignment changed.
  
  Otherwise, the Outsider dies as normal assuming no sources of protection and their on death ability triggered.
  Offering the Barber swap to the confused Fang Gu is quite amusing.

Q If the Fang Gu picks an Outsider while drunk or poisoned nothing happens but is their once per game jump used up?
A No, as the jump never happened.


========
=Farmer=
========
Q If the Farmer dies to the Demon creating a new Farmer but is then resurrected (Al-Hadikhia / Professor / Shabaloth / ...) could there be multiple living Farmers?
A Yes.

Q What does a Barista doubled Farmer do?
A The Farmer dying would cause two good living players to become Farmers.

Q If the evil Farmer (Bounty Hunter / Mezepheles / ...) dies in the night, who becomes the Farmer?
A It is still an alive good player.

Q If an ability gainer (Cannibal / Philosopher / Pixie) with the Farmer ability dies in the night, what do they turn a good player into?
A A Farmer.

  Any player with the Farmer ability, regardless of whether they are actually the Farmer,
  will cause a good player to become a Farmer when they die at night.

Q Does a player waking at night to learn that they are now the Farmer register to the Chambermaid?
A Only if that player woke up due to their ability prior to becoming the Farmer, otherwise no, as changing character is not waking to their ability.

Q Can the Gambler who gambled wrong and died become the Farmer later the same night?
A No, as they are already dead.

Q Can the good Goon become a Farmer when the Farmer dies?
A Yes.  The previous Farmer player is not drunk as they are not choosing the Goon with the Farmer ability, the ST is.

Q If the grandchild Farmer is killed, could the Grandmother become a Farmer and not die?
A Yes, because they are now a Farmer and therefore no longer have the Grandmother ability causing them to die.
  If the Grandmother instead dies to her ability then she is no longer a legitimate new Farmer choice.

Q What is the Leviathan jinx with the Farmer?
A If the Leviathan is in play and a Farmer dies by execution, a good player becomes a Farmer that night.

Q If the Lycanthrope kills the Farmer and then becomes the Farmer, can there be other deaths that night?
A Yes, as there is no longer a Lycanthrope ability in play preventing deaths.

Q Does the Mathematician get a +1 if a player becomes a Farmer, preventing them from using their previous ability?
A No. As far as the Mathematician is concerned that player is the Farmer and their ability is working fine.

Q Can the Mayor bounce a kill on to the Farmer, triggering the Farmer's ability?
A Yes.  This could even cause the Mayor to become a Farmer.

Q If there are two Farmers in play could a new instance of the Washerwoman be shown both Farmer players as the Farmer?
A Yes.

Q What happens if the last living good player that dies is the Farmer?
A The Farmer just dies without converting another player into a Farmer,
  and the game continues if possible.

Q If all good players are Farmers and one is killed by the Demon, is one of the Farmers still woken up and told that they are a Farmer?
A Yes, it is part of the Farmer's ability.

Q When does the Farmer's ability trigger? 
A As soon as they are dead, assuming the death occurred at night.

Q If a multi-kill Demon (Al-Hadikhia / Po / Shabaloth) kills the Farmer as their first pick,
  can their next choices be woken up and told that they are Farmers before their deaths are processed?
A Yes.  Probably best not to though.


============
=Fearmonger=
============
Q Does a successful Fearmonger execution of an evil Townsfolk or Outsider (Bounty Hunter / Cult Leader / Goon / Mezepheles / ...)
  or Minion or Demon (Poppy Grower game)
  result in a loss for evil.
A Yes. Sometimes the Fearmonger is better off not nominating until they know more about their target.

Q If the Recluse is Fearmonger executed, who wins?
A The ST can pick a side, but since Fearmonger wins are rare, it should be an evil win.

Q Can the Spy register as good and be Fearmonger executed, resulting in an evil win?
A Yes but don't.

  The ST can pick which side wins, but it would be harsh on the good team to have the Fearmonger executed Spy misregister, so it would be best to have evil lose.

Q If a player in a Revolutionary pair is Fearmonger executed, could they register falsely?
A Yes but don't, as this is then the ST picking the winner.

Q If the Fearmonger nominates and gets their target executed but dies before the end of the day (Golem / Harpy / Witch / ...), does their ability still trigger?
A No, they are dead and have no ability.

Q If the Fearmonger is successful in executing their target, could the Scapegoat be executed instead, preventing the game from ending?
A Yes, but the ST should not do this as presumably the evil team worked hard to get the Fearmonger target executed and deserve the win!

Q If the Sweetheart is Fearmonger executed, can they drunk the Fearmonger and prevent their win?
A No.  The Sweetheart's team loses before the drunkenness happens.

---------------combine
Q If a player targeted and nominated by the Fearmonger survives the vote but is the same day executed for a Cerenovus madness break or nominating the Virgin,
  is the Fearmonger's win condition triggered?
A No, the target's execution must be a direct result of the Fearmonger's nomination in order to trigger the win.

Q The Fearmonger nominates their target who receives enough votes to be on the block.
  Their target is then executed for a madness break (Cerenovus).
  Does the Fearmonger ability trigger?
A No.

  The nomination must specifically be the cause of the execution in order for the Fearmonger to trigger.
-----------------------------

Q Can the Fearmonger win trigger if the Bishop is in play?
A No.

  The Fearmonger is completely neutralised since they cannot nominate in order to satisfy their ability.  This combination of characters is best avoided.

Q Who wins when the Alchemist Fearmonger chooses and successfully executes the public Goblin?
A Good wins.

  If both the Goblin's and the Fearmonger's abilities are satisfied
  causing both a good and evil win,
  then the result is a good win as good wins on ties.

Q What happens if the Fearmonger chooses herself, then nominates herself and is executed? 
A The Fearmonger's team loses.

Q If the Fearmonger nominates and executes the Lleech host which team will win?
A Evil wins.

  The Fearmonger ability trumps the executing the Demon win condition,
  as ability wins, usually, trump normal game wins.

  Usually, because exceptions are made in rulings if, for example, good could never win otherwise.

Q If the Fearmonger ability enters mid game (Pit-Hag / Hatter / Plague Doctor) how is it run?
A If a player gains the Fearmonger ability, any choices they made as their previous character are not relevant to the Fearmonger announcement;
  their first pick will cause an announcement regardless of who it is. 

Q Can the dead Fearmonger still use their ability?
A No, they are dead and have no ability so the fear immediately goes away, they cannot switch it to another player, and being dead cannot nominate anyway.

Q What happens if the Fearmonger nominates their target who is then executed but does not die (Devil's Advocate / Fool / Sailor / Tea Lady / ...)?
A The Fearmonger wins; their ability only cares that their target is executed, not that they die.

Q The Fearmonger becomes drunk / poisoned.  How is it run?
A The game does not end should the Fearmonger manage to nominate and get their target executed.
  Additionally, if they try to change their target,
  the ST leaves the reminder token on the current player and no new notification goes out,
  which will likely alert the Fearmonger that something is wrong.


=========
=Fiddler=
=========
Q Does the Fiddler override the Evil Twin's "good cannot win" ability?
A Yes, the Fiddler overrides everything.

Q If the Fiddler is in play, can the Demon choose the Spy?
A No.

Q If there is a circle where the Demon does not kill and the town does not nominate, what happens?
A The ST can use the Fiddler, a Fabled character.
  At night, the ST wakes the Demon who must choose one good player.
  The next day, the town votes between the two on who should win. Everyone can vote, it uses no ghost votes, abilities cannot affect this vote, etc.

Q What happens if because of the Magician or the Poppy Grower the Demon challenges an evil player for the Fiddler contest?
A The ST would prompt them to choose again.
  The Demon might be trying to identify their evil team mates with this method,
  but as there is no way for them to communicate with them before the Fiddler happens it will not really help them.


===========
=Fisherman=
===========
Q Does Fisherman advice have to be specific and can it be affected by the Vortox and misregistration?
A The Fisherman gets whatever the ST wants to give them which can be as specific or vague as they want.
  Misregistration can affect it if the ST wants, and the Vortox must affect it.


============
=Flowergirl=
============
Q Does the Flowergirl still learn that a Demon voted in a Legion game where only Legion voted?
A Yes, a Demon had their hand up so it counts.

Q Who does the Flowergirl learn about if the Demon moves (Barber/ Engineer/ Fang Gu / Hatter / Imp / Scarlet Woman / Snake Charmer / Summoner)?
A The Flowergirl learns if _the_ Demon voted, so they only look at who was the Demon during the votes.

  The ST cannot keep track of everyone's votes,
  so they only track whether the Demon votes.
  When the Demon votes, the ST places the "Demon voted" reminder in the Grimoire, and the Flowergirl gets a yes.
  Whether the respective player is still a Demon at the time the Flowergirl receives their info is not important.

  Similarly, if a non-Demon player votes and later becomes the Demon,
  the Flowergirl will not learn a yes on that player,
  although they may still receive a yes if the previous Demon voted.

Q If the Flowergirl is dead during the day and resurrected the next night (Al-Hadikhia / Professor / Shabaloth / ...),
  are they told if the Demon voted the previous day?
A Yes.


======
=Fool=
======
Q Can the Pit-Hag's deaths are arbitrary ability kill the unspent Fool / Zombuul?
A Yes.  Effectively they were targeted twice so it appears that they were one-shot.

Q Does a dead player turned into the Fool come back to life as the once killed Fool?
A No, they stay dead.

Q If the Fool is attacked at night and saved by their ability, are they informed?
A No, they will be unaware that their ability has been spent.

Q Does the protected Fool get spent when attacked?
A No, any protection ability (Innkeeper / Monk / Tea Lady) lets the Fool keep their ability.


================
=Fortune Teller=
================
Q If an ability gainer (Cannibal / Philosopher / Pixie) gains the Fortune Teller ability do they get a Red Herring?
A Yes.

  They acquire all of the FT ability which means one good player is marked as the Red Herring.
  The marked player need not be the same player as the regular Fortune Teller's Red Herring.

Q Does the Drunk who believes that they are the Fortune Teller still have a Red Herring?
A No.

Q The Fortune Teller's Red Herring is any good player.  What happens if that player is turned evil (Mezepheles / ...)?
A The ST moves the RH token to a good player.

Q The Fortune Teller's Red Herring is any good player.  What happens if that player is turned into a Minion or a Demon?
A Nothing, as character type is unimportant.  
  The RH must be a good player, so as long as that player remains good, the RH token stays put.  

Q Does the Fortune Teller who checks a dead Demon, perhaps an Imp who just self-killed or a Fang Gu that just jumped, get a yes?
A Yes.
  The FT just checks if any of the two players they pick is a Demon, or registering as one, and a dead Demon is still a Demon.

  Death does not change a player's character type, it just makes them dead,
  and creates a new Imp in the case of a self-killing Imp or a new Fang Gu when an Outsider is killed for the first time.

  Some abilities specify _the_ Demon, which refers to the actual Demon, and these abilities target any alive Demons first,
  or players registering as one, and only if no Demon is alive do they target dead Demons.

Q If the drunk or poisoned Fortune Teller picks their Red Herring, do they have to get a yes? 
A While drunk or poisoned they can be told a yes or no regardless of who they picked,
  unless it is a Vortox game.

Q Does the Fortune Teller get a yes if they check a dead Demon?
A Yes, they are still a Demon and the FT ability does not specify living Demon.

Q What happens when the Red Herring becomes a good Demon / the babysitter?
A Nothing, since the Fortune Teller's condition that a good player registers as the Demon is still satisfied.

Q When is the Fortune Teller's Red Herring allocated?
A During setup, before any players wake.

Q Can the Fortune Teller's Red Herring be a Traveller?
A Yes, if they were present at the start of the game and are good.
  However, if they were to travel away then a new Red Herring would have to be allocated.

  The Fortune Teller is allowed to pick Travellers with their ability,
  so any Traveller that travelled in after the start of the game is unlikely to be the Red Herring,
  which the FT can exploit to single check players.


=========
=Gambler=
=========
Q Does the Gambler die immediately at the time of the gamble or at the end of the night?
A They die at their turn in the night order.  Generally deaths are immediate, just only announced at dawn, assuming they are still dead then.

Q Can the Gambler die from gambling the Recluse as the Recluse?
A Yes, if the Recluse misregisters as a Minion or Demon,
  then they do not register as the Recluse to the Gambler's ability, therefore an incorrect gamble that kills the Gambler.

  Gambling on the Recluse is more of a gamble than other gambles, as the ST can always just kill the Gambler if the gamestate warrants it.

Q Can the Gambler who is either drunk, poisoned or protected (Innkeeper / Tea Lady / ...) die to their own gamble?
A No.

  The Gambler can only die to their own ability if they make an incorrect gamble while sober, healthy and unprotected.

  Note that if the Gambler dies to their own Gamble
  then any drunkenness, poisoning or protection later that night will have no affect,
  as they will already be dead by that point.

==========
=Gangster=
==========
Q The Deviant was funny today so cannot be exiled, but can the Gangster still kill them?
A Yes.

Q Can the Gangster kill the Lleech?
A No.

Q If the unspent Fool is attacked by the Gangster, are they safe?
A Yes, and their ability is used.

Q What happens if the Gangster is holding Lil' Monsta and kills the grandchild with their ability during the day?
A The Grandmother dies immediately too.

Q What happens if the Gangster is holding Lil' Monsta and kills the King with their ability during the day?
A The Choirboy learns the Gangster is the Demon that night.

Q What happens if the Gangster is holding Lil' Monsta and kills the Sage with their ability during the day?
A The Sage learns two players including the Gangster that night.

Q Can the Gangster kill a Tea Lady protected player?
A No.

Q Is the sober Sailor safe from the Gangster?
A Yes.

Q What happens if the Gangster is holding Lil' Monsta and picks the Soldier with their ability?
A The Soldier does not die.

Q Can the Gangster kill their neighbour who is favoured by the Storm Catcher?
A No.

Q Can the Gangster trigger the Virgin's ability?
A No, the Gangster's choice is not a nomination.

Q Does the Witch-cursed Gangster die if they use their ability?
A No, the Gangster's choice is not a nomination.

Q Can the Scapegoat die instead of the Gangster's target?
A No, a Gangster kill is not an execution.

Q Do Gangster kills prevent the Vortox's win condition?
A No, a Gangster kill is not an execution.

Q Are Gangster kills included in the Leviathan's execution count?
A No, a Gangster kill is not an execution.

Q If the Gangster kills the Demon in a Mastermind game, does the game continue?
A No, a Gangster kill is not an execution, so the Mastermind's ability is not triggered and the good team wins.

Q If the Goblin publicly claims to be the Goblin and is then Gangster killed, do evil win?
A No, a Gangster kill is not an execution. 

Q Could the Gangster killing the Good Twin instantly end the game with an evil win?
A No, a Gangster kill is not an execution, and the Good Twin must be executed to trigger the Evil Twin's win condition.

Q Can the Devil's Advocate prevent the Gangster's kill?
A No, a Gangster kill is not an execution.

Q If the Gangster kills the Saint, do evil win?
A No, a Gangster kill is not an execution, and the Saint must die by execution to trigger evil's win condition.

Q If the Gangster kills a Minion, does that trigger the Minstrel?
A No, a Gangster kill is not an execution, and the Minion needs to have died by execution to trigger the Minstrel's ability.

Q Can the Cannibal gain the ability of the Gangster's kill?
A No, a Gangster kill is not an execution.

Q Can the Pacifist prevent the Gangster's kill?
A No, the Gangster's kill is not an execution.

Q Can the Undertaker see who the Gangster killed?
A No, a Gangster kill is not an execution.

Q Is a Gangster kill an execution?
A No, a Gangster kill is not an execution. 

Q Can the Gangster use their ability in the middle of a call for their exile?
A Yes.

  It is something that can happen at anytime
  but an ST in that moment would probably do things in an order they think is sensible and fair as the Gangster has to announce they are using their ability.


=========
=General=
=========
Q How does the General learn their info?
A RAW they are run as a three star General: the ST wakes them and shows their thumb in one of three positions, up, down, or sideways,
  to indicate if they feel the evil team is winning, losing, or tying the game.

  The term five star General is used when an ST modifies the info to be slightly winning / losing.
  The ST is free to run the General how they wish but they should make it clear to their players how they run it.


=======
=Gnome=
=======
Q What happens when the Witch cursed player nominates the Gnome's Amigo?
A The nominator dies straightaway, before the Gnome has the option to kill them.

  The ST must acknowledge that the Amigo has been nominated before the Gnome can kill the nominator,
  but if the nominator was the Witch cursed player then they are instantly announced as having died,
  before the Gnome can react.
  This makes it obvious to all that it was not the Gnome that caused the death.

Q What happens when the Gnome's Amigo flips alignment?
A Nothing.

  The Gnome's ability is that they start knowing an aligned player
  and should their Amigo change alignment (Cult Leader / Fang Gu / Goon / Mezepheles / Snake Charmer / Summoner / ...) then they are now on different teams.
  As with other start knowing abilities, the Gnome's info is not updated.
  Additionally, there is nothing about the Gnome's ability that blocks the alignment change or causes the Gnome to join their Amigo on their new team.


========
=Goblin=
========
Q If the public Goblin is executed while protected by the Devil's Advocate, does their team still win?
A Yes.

  The Goblin just cares about being executed to trigger their win condition.
  Dying as a result of the execution is unnecessary.

Q Could the dead Goblin claim to be the Goblin when nominated and trigger their ability if their corpse is executed?
A Only in the special case were they were killed by the Vigormortis so still have their ability.
  Otherwise no, as the dead Goblin has no ability so is unable to trigger their win condition.

Q Could the Goblin / Alchemist Goblin publicly claiming to be the Goblin trigger their win condition if they are executed for breaking Cerenovus madness? 
A Yes, if the ST is feeling really generous.


===========
=Godfather=
===========
Q If new Outsiders are created (Pit-Hag) that the Godfather did not see at the start,
  does the Godfather get to kill if one of the new Outsiders died today?
A The Godfather gets to kill if any Outsider died,
  even one that did not exist at the start of the game.

Q N1 the preached Godfather does not learn the in play Outsiders,
  but do they learn them on a later night after the Preacher dies or becomes drunk or poisoned?
A Yes.

Q Can the Recluse register as the Spy who registers as an Outsider to the Godfather?
A The Recluse who does not misregister as another role would ping the Godfather.
  If the Recluse registered as the Spy then she would not show up to the Godfather,
  which would be an Outsider ability hurting evil, so usually not recommended.

Q The Godfather and the Recluse are in play. Must the ST show the Recluse token to the Godfather or can she skip them due to their ability to register as a Minion/Demon?
A The ST could do that, but STs should generally not use Outsiders to hinder evil, at least not during N1.

  The Godfather could probably figure out that that means the Recluse is in play, unless there is other Outsider manipulation in play,
  or they might suspect that they are drunk or poisoned so mistrust their info.

Q Can the Spy register as an Outsider to the Godfather? 
A Yes.
  Doing this during setup would be an Outsider ability hurting evil so not recommended.
  But the ST might want to do this after the Spy is executed to give the evil team an extra Godfather kill.

Q If there are no Outsiders, what does the Godfather learn?
A The ST wakes them and shakes their head to indicate a no.
  A zero would also work but that's not RAW.

Q In a base zero Outsider game, can the Godfather's Outsider modifier be -1?
A Yes, just as the Vigormortis's modifier is -1 in a base zero Outsider game.

Q If an Outsider died today and an active Godfather ability became in play that night
  (Alchemist / Al-Hadikhia / Apprentice / Hatter / Pit-Hag / Plague Doctor / Shabaloth / ...)
  is there a Godfather kill?
A Yes.
  The Godfather is backwards-checking so can potentially kill if any Outsider died today.

  This includes:
  * the Hatter died today turning an existing Minion/Demon into the Godfather that night;
  * the Plague Doctor died today giving the ST the Godfather ability.

Q Does the Godfather created mid game (Alchemist / Al-Hadikhia / Apprentice / Hatter / Pit-Hag / Plague Doctor / Shabaloth / ...) learn the in play Outsiders?
A Yes.
  Wake her up, inform her of her new character/ability and the in play Outsiders regardless of their living status, then put her back to sleep.

Q If more than one Outsider during a single day does the Godfather still only get one kill?
A Yes.


=======
=Golem=
=======
Q Can the Devil's Advocate protect the Golem's nominee?
A No.

  The DA only protects against death by execution and the Golem's nominee is not dying as a result of an execution,
  so the nominee dies, assuming that they are not the Demon and there are no other sources of protection.

Q Can the unspent Fool survive the Golem's nomination?
A Yes, and their ability is used.

Q Can the Pacifist protect the Golem's nominee?
A No, the Golem's nominee is not dying as a result of an execution.

Q If the Golem nominates and kills a player, then the Pit-Hag changes them from the Golem and then back to the Golem, do they get to nominate again?
A Yes, as it is a new instance of the ability.

Q Can the Recluse registering as the Demon survive the Golem's nomination.
A Yes.

Q The Demon is slayed and the game continues because the Scarlet Woman is triggered.
  What happens if the Golem nominates the former Scarlet Woman the same day?
A Nothing.

  While for practical reasons the SW only formally learns that they are the Demon at the start of the following night,
  they become the Demon the instance the former Demon is slayed,
  so cannot die to the Golem's ability.

Q Could an evil player bluffing as the Golem nominate the Tinker cause them to die?
A Yes, successfully simulating the Golem.

Q If the Golem nominates the player favoured by the Storm Catcher, do they die?
A No, they can only die by execution, and a Golem nomination is not an execution.

Q Can the Golem kill the sober Sailor by nominating them?
A No.

Q If the Tea Lady's neighbours are both good do they survive the Golem's nomination?
A Yes.

Q The Golem nominates the unproced Virgin. Who is executed?  Both are sober/healthy and the Virgin has their ability.
A The Golem is an Outsider so does not proc the Virgin.
  The Virgin dies to the Golem's nomination because they are not the Demon.
  This is not an execution though, as the Golem's ability just causes a death.
  If it were instead a Philosopher Golem or a Cannibal Golem, the ST could let both abilities resolve.

Q Can the Golem kill the Vizier?
A No. The Vizier's ability states that they cannot die during the day.

Q Does the Witch-cursed Golem still get to kill?
A If the Golem is cursed by the Witch, is sober and healthy and nominates a non-Demon, both players would die immediately.
  This includes if the Witch is nominated.

Q Can a player that has previously nominated and becomes the Golem (Pit-Hag) or gains the ability (Cannibal / Philosopher), nominate?
A Yes, they get one more nomination.

Q Can the drunk or poisoned Golem nominate again?
A No.
  There is no way for the Golem to be sure that they are drunk or poisoned.
  Much like the Butler voting without their master, this is cheating, and will need to be dealt with accordingly.


======
=Goon=
======
Q What happens when the Assassin is the first to choose the Goon at night?
A The end result is that the Goon dies evil.

  The sequence of events:
  # The Assassin chooses the Goon;
  # The first part of the Goon's ability, "the 1st player to choose you with their ability is drunk until dusk",
    momentarily makes the Assassin drunk, saving the Goon from the first part of the Assassin's ability: "Once per game, at night*, choose a player: they die".
  # The second part of the Goon's ability, "You become their alignment", causes the Goon to turn / remain evil;
  # As the Goon is still alive the second part of the Assassin's ability, "even if for some reason they could not", triggers to kill the Goon.
  # The Goon is now dead so the Assassin becomes sober.

  Additionally, the Goon dying the first time they are picked is an abnormality detected by the Mathematician.

--------------reword
Q Can the Goon make the Balloonist drunk?
A No. The Goon is not chosen by the Balloonist, merely shown to the Balloonist, so does not make the Balloonist drunk and is a valid player for the ST to show.

Q What happens if the Barber dies and the Demon chooses two players, one of whom is the Goon?
A The Barber swap happens normally with no alignment flipping or drunkenness.

  The Goon's ability is not triggered since it reads "the first player to choose you with _their_ ability",
  and the Demon player is picking them with the Barber's ability.

Q If the player selecting the Goon to die is made sober and healthy by the Barista
  the Goon dies but do they still change alignment?
A Yes, the Goon changes alignment irrespective of whether they manage to drunk the responsible player.

Q If the Goon dies to the Boomdandy, are they turned evil?
A No, nor do they cause any drunking, as the Boomdandy is not choosing the Goon with their ability.

Q If the Bounty Hunter learns the Goon as evil, can the Goon's ability trigger?
A No. The BH being shown the Goon is not choosing the Goon with their ability, so they cannot be made drunk or flip the Goon.

Q Just like the Courtier,
  does the Cerenovus trigger the unpicked Goon by pointing to Goon on the character sheet, when they attempt to make any player mad as the Goon?
A No.
  The Courtier is targeting a player by way of choosing a character - only the player with that character token could possibly become Courtier drunk.
  This can be treated as though the ability is pointing at the Goon, even though the player is not.
  However, the Cerenovus is not choosing the Goon in the same sense; they are not interacting with the Goon player just by pointing at Goon on the character list.

Q The Courtier targets the Goon.  What happens?
A If the Courtier is the first to pick the Goon that night,
  the Courtier is drunk and the ability is spent,
  while the Goon turns/stays good and is not made drunk.

Q Is the Empath neighbouring the Goon made drunk?
A No, as the Empath is not using their ability to directly choose the Goon.

Q What happens if the Fang Gu picks the Goon?
A If the Fang Gu is the first to pick the Goon tonight,
  the Goon becomes evil and the Fang Gu becomes drunk.

  If the Goon has already been picked and the FG has yet to jump this game,
  the FG dies and the Goon becomes a new evil Fang Gu.

  If the Goon has already been picked and the once per game FG jump has already happened,
  then the Goon just dies.

Q How does the Gambler interact with the Goon?
A If the Gambler points to the unpicked Goon (or a player with the Goon ability)
  then, no matter what character they are gambled as, 
  the Gambler becomes drunk
  and the Goon turns or remains the Gambler's alignment.

  If the Gambler gambles another player as the Goon, the Goon has no effect on the Gambler.

  So the Gambler pointing to the Goon on the script is treated differently to the Courtier doing same.
  The rationale for this is that the Gambler's guessing a player as a character is not targeting the player with that character,
  whereas the Courtier is effectively picking a player via their character
  so choosing a Goon, if in play and yet to be picked, would trigger the drunkenness.

Q Can the Golem trigger the Goon's ability?
A No.

  The Golem picks during the day, meaning that no part of the Goon's ability can trigger
  so the Goon dies with whatever alignment they currently have.

Q Can the Goon drunk the Gossip?
A No.  Gossip kills are chosen by the ST not a player,
  so if the Gossip makes a true statement and the ST kills off the Goon with the Gossip ability,
  no part of the Goon's ability is triggered (drunkenness or alignment flipping), the Goon just dies.

Q What happens if the Harpy is the first to select the Goon tonight?
A The Goon remains / becomes evil
  and the Harpy is drunk,
  meaning that there is no Harpy madness and their first pick is not woken.

Q The Innkeeper picks player X and the unpicked Goon, becoming Goon drunk.
  That night the Shabaloth picks the Goon and then player X in that order.
  Does player X die?
A Yes.

  The moment the Innkeeper chose the Goon, they became drunk, and no protection was placed - the ST does not place their reminder tokens in the Grimoire.
  When the Goon dies first, the Innkeeper sobers - the ST removes the Goon drunk reminder token.
  But no one is protected tonight - the Innkeeper tokens were never placed in the Grimoire.

Q If the King learns the Goon, could they trigger the Goon's ability?
A No, as the King is not actively choosing the Goon with their ability.

Q What happens if the Lleech picks the unpicked Goon as their host?
A The Lleech is drunk until dusk and the Goon turns evil, but is still the host.
  Being drunk the Lleech fails to poison the Goon,
  so the Goon's ability then continues to function normally throughout the game, despite being the host.

Q Can the Goon be turned evil in a Legion or Riot game?
A Generally no, as they can only be turned by being picked at night, so they will likely be good the entire game if there is nothing else that can turn them.
  They can still make good players drunk though.

Q Is the Mathematician pinged if the player who first chooses the Goon at night is not made drunk for whatever reason?
A Yes, as the Goon's ability functioned abnormally.

Q What happens if the Goon says the Mezepheles word? / Can the Goon drunk the Mezepheles?
A If the Goon says the Mez word during the day,
  they turn evil that night, independently of their own ability.
  This does not drunk the Mez as they have not actively chosen the Goon player with their ability; it is the Goon that has actively triggered the Mez ability.

  The now evil Goon can still be turned good the same night if a good player is the first to pick them,
  thereby flipping the Goon's alignment twice in the same night.

Q After a Minion is executed could the Goon drunk the Minstrel, so ensuring all other players are sober?
A No.

  The Goon only drunks the first player who chooses them with their ability each night.
  The Minstrel never chooses the Goon, and so the Goon does not make the Minstrel drunk. 

Q If the Nightwatchman chooses the unpicked Goon, what happens?
A The Nightwatchman becomes drunk and the Goon does not learn who the Nightwatchman is.

Q If the Philosopher chooses the Goon ability, and there is an actual Goon in play, what happens?
A The Goon makes the Philo drunk and becomes / remains the Philo's alignment.

  The Philo's once per game ability is used and they have failed to gain the Goon's ability.
  While in theory the ST could deceive the Philo that they gained the ability by simulating an alignment flip,
  the ST is advised not to lie to a player about their alignment as it tends not to be fun.

Q If the Pit-Hag turns a good player into the Goon, do they become evil?
A No, because the Goon was out of play at the time of the pick so was not targeted.
  So they would stay good, at least until another evil player chooses them first in the night. 
  And that does include if a different evil player chooses the new Goon that same night, before any good players do.

Q If the Pit-Hag selects the unpicked Goon and tries to turn them into a character that is already in play, what happens?
A If the PH is the first player to target the Goon that night, then the PH becomes drunk and the Goon turns/stays evil.
  Whether the chosen character was already in play is unimportant,
  the Goon's ability is about a player choosing them not whether the choice has an effect.

Q The Goon is in play and yet to be picked tonight.
  The Pit-Hag tries to turn another player into the Goon.
  What happens?
A Nothing.

  Since the Goon is in play the attempted character change fails.
  Additionally, the Pit-Hag does not become drunk and there is no possible alignment flip for the Goon
  since this requires the actual Goon player to be chosen, as in to be actively pointed to by another player.

  If the Pit-Hag had attempted to turn the Goon into the Goon then, as the Goon has been pointed to, there would have been drunkenness and potential alignment flipping.

Q Can the Psychopath turn the Goon evil?
A No.  The Psychopath kills during the day and the Goon's ability only works at night, so the Goon dies with their current alignment and does not make the Psychopath drunk.

------ combine
Q If the Pukka selects the Goon first, is the Goon still poisoned and dies after the Pukka becomes sober?
A No, in this instance the Goon will turn evil, the Pukka-poison is not applied and the Pukka is Goon-drunk. 
  No one will die to the Pukka this night, and the previously poisoned player is temporarily healthy from the Pukka.
  When the Pukka becomes sober and healthy (next night probably), 
  the player who was poisoned prior to choosing the Goon will be poisoned again and die later that night after the Pukka chooses a new target 
  (so long as that new target is not the unchosen Goon again!).

Q How does the whole interaction between the Pukka and the Goon work?
A If the Goon has been picked already that night -> Goon becomes poisoned, and dies next night
  If the Goon has not been picked yet -> Pukka becomes drunk, Goon becomes evil, no one dies tonight to the Demon.
  previously Pukka poisoned player is temporarily healthy for as long as the Pukka has lost their ability 
  When the Pukka regains their ability, the previously Pukka poisoned player dies after the Pukka picks again.
--

Q If the Shabaloth attacks the unpicked Goon does one of their picks from the previous night still get regurgitated?
A Yes.

  Regurgitation, if the ST opts for it to happen, always occurs before the Shab kills
  so before there is a chance for the Goon to make the Demon drunk.

Q Could the Spy with a choosing ability (Cerenovus / Fearmonger / Godfather / ...) granted by the Plague Doctor cause the evil Goon to become good?
A Yes, but don't.

Q If the Summoner chooses the unpicked Goon to be the Demon, what happens?
A The good team wins which, sadly for the Goon does not include them:
  # the Summoner is immediately drunk;
  # the Goon turns evil and does not become the Demon;
  # no Demon in the game mean good wins.

Q If the unpicked Goon is targeted by an evil player but cannot flip,
  because the Spirit of Ivory is in play and there is already one extra evil player,
  do they still drunk the chooser?
A Yes.

Q What happens when the Widow on their first night is the first to pick the Goon?
A The Widow is immediately drunk and has no ongoing poisoning effect for the entire game
  while the Goon turns evil but remains healthy.

  Since the Widow is drunk no Widow ping goes out tonight.
  Only when the Widow becomes sober and healthy at a later time are they announced to be in play to a good player.
  Should the Widow die before they become sober and healthy then no announcement is ever made.

  Since the Goon was not made permanently poisoned their ability functions normally so they may flip alignment on a future night.

Q The Goon specifies that a player has to choose them in order for their ability to trigger,
  but if the ST picks them (Lil' Monsta kill / Legion kill / Gossip kill / Mayor bounce / Ojo picks an out of play character / Minion ability gained via the Plague Doctor / Yaggababble kill / ...),
  can they be flipped or make anyone drunk?
A The Goon just dies or is affected by the source's ability with no Goon drunkenness or alignment changing possible.
  
  The Goon ability is triggered only by the first player to pick them at night,
  and since the ST is not a player the ability is untriggered and the kill/ability processes normally.

-------------combine
Q If the charged Po happens to select the Goon as the third kill and the Goon has not been selected yet and causes the Po to become drunk,
  do the first two kills happen or would they fail because the Po becomes drunk before dawn? 
A They happen. Except for the Al-Hadikhia, which has different mechanics to other Demons, players die the moment a Demon chooses them.

Q What happens when a multi-kill Demon (Shabaloth / charged Po / Al-Hadikhia / ...) targets the unpicked Goon?
A Kills always happen in the order that they were picked.
  So, except for the Al-Hadikhia which has different mechanics, the previous targets if there are any and if they are unprotected, will die.
  
Q If the Po picks the Pacifist, the Goon and the Minstrel in that order, would only the Pacifist die, since the Goon makes the Po drunk saving themself and the Minstrel?
  Or would all of them survive because of the Goon?
A If the Goon has not been picked yet in that night, only the Pacifist dies.
-------------------------------

Q If the Poisoner targets the Goon and the Pit-Hag changes the Goon into a Demon
  is the result an evil Demon or a good Demon?
A If the Poisoner was the first person to target the Goon at night, the Goon turns evil, the Poisoner is Goon-drunk and the Goon becomes healthy.
  If the Pit-Hag hits the Goon afterwards, the Goon just changes character, not alignment.
  So they would be an evil Demon and the Poisoner is no longer Goon-drunk.

Q Is the Goon awakened to learn they switch alignment?
A Yes, every time.
  When the Goon changes alignment, they wake straight after the player who triggers them to learn this. Note, that this also registers to the Chambermaid.

Q Does the drunk or poisoned evil Goon stay evil?
A Yes.

Q Can a Minion guessing the Goon is the Damsel, flip the Goon's alignment?
A No, the Minion is not choosing the Goon with their ability.

Q Can a drunk or poisoned player or the Marionette, the Drunk or the Lunatic flip the Goon?
A Yes. The player is still choosing, which is what the Goon cares about, not whether that choosing would actually do anything.
  The alignment change comes from the Goon's ability, so the Goon is the only player that needs to be sober and healthy for it to happen.

  Remember that the Marionette would flip the Goon evil and the Lunatic would flip them good, which is opposite to what these characters believe should happen.

Q If the drunk or poisoned Goon is chosen by a player at night then their ability does not trigger.
  But what happens if later that night they become sober and healthy and picked by another player?
A Nothing, since that player is not the first player to pick the Goon with their ability tonight.

Q Could a player with the Goon ability
  be triggered by a player using their ability to choose the Goon character?
A Yes, as long as they were the first to pick them tonight, causing drunkenness and a potential alignment flip.

  The Goon ability is triggered by being chosen by a player
  and a player choosing the Goon character via their ability is treated as having indirectly chosen the Goon player.

  So the Goon or an ability gainer (Boffin / Cannibal / Philosopher) with the Goon ability
  would be triggered if a player with a character choosing ability
  (Courtier / Ojo / Philosopher / Pit-Hag)
  chooses the Goon character.


========
=Gossip=
========
Q The Gossip gossips that someone is the Demon.
  The following night that player becomes the Demon (Barber / Engineer / Fang Gu / Hatter / Pit-Hag / Summoner / ...).
  Is there a Gossip-kill?
A No, the gossip is either true or not at the time the statement is made.

Q Is the Gossip allowed to make a compound gossip, i.e. "I gossip X or Y."?
A Yes.  The ST might prompt the player to specify if they intend it to be an exclusive or, i.e. exactly one thing is true.

Q If the dead Gossip made a true gossip during the day, then is resurrected (Al-Hadikhia / Professor), will there be a Gossip-kill?
A There is if the Gossip is resurrected before their turn in the night order.

Q If a non-Gossip during the day makes a correct gossip and then that night becomes the Gossip 
  (Barber / Cannibal / Damsel / Philosopher / Pit-Hag / Pixie / ...)
  does the new Gossip kill at their turn in the night order?
A Yes.  It is recommended that the ST tracks any player's gossips who could potentially become the Gossip.

Q If the Gossip makes a correct gossip during the day
  but that night becomes a different character (Barber / Farmer / Pit-Hag / ...)
  is there a Gossip-kill that night?
A No.

Q Could the Gossip making a correct gossip kill the Farmer,
  triggering the Farmer's ability?
A Yes.  The Gossip could even become the Farmer themself.

Q Can the Gossip-kill target a player that cannot die, either because they are protected by an ability or are already dead?
A Yes, but this is not recommended since the idea is that the extra kill tells the Gossip something.
  Most of the time the Gossip should be used to kill a player, who need not always be an expected player, as long as it is fair and interesting.

Q Can the Gossip kill an evil player?
A Yes.  This is obviously context dependent because killing an evil player helps the good team,
  but it may potentially lend credulity to an evil player, helping the evil team,
  and is unexpected, making the game more interesting.

  A good use of this would be to hide the fact that an evil player was picked by the Moonchild.
  In this scenario the Moonchild is not, and should not, messing up the Gossip's info,
  but the Gossip is messing up the Moonchild info, which is fine.

Q Can "there are two Demons" be a correct Gossip statement when the Recluse is in play?
A Yes, if the Recluse is registering as a Demon for it.

Q How is the Gossip affected by drunkenness and poisoning?
A The Gossip is a backwards-checking ability.
  During the previous day, even if they were drunk or poisoned, if the Gossip made a correct statement, the ST would have placed the Gossip's dead reminder in the Grimoire.
  Then that night, as long as they are sober, healthy and alive at their turn in the night order, the Gossip kill goes through.
  If however they are drunk or poisoned tonight then there is no kill.

Q If the Gossip dies after making a correct gossip does the kill still go through?
A No.  The Gossip needs to be alive during their position in the night order in order for someone to die.


=============
=Grandmother=
=============
Q If the Demon picks the grandchild Gambler who has died to their own gamble earlier that night, does the Grandmother survive?
A Yes. The Demon must kill the Grandchild in order for the Grandmother to attack themself.
  In this case, the Gambler is dead and cannot be killed again.

Q The Demon kills the grandchild at night while the Grandmother is protected by the Monk.
  Does the Grandmother die?
A Yes.

  The Grandmother dies to their own ability, not the Demon's, so the Monk protection has no effect.
  Now if the Grandmother was Innkeeper or Tea Lady protected, they would be safe.

Q Can the Grandmother see the Recluse as the good Imp?
A Yes, if the ST really wanted to.
  It would be an amusing way of showing the Recluse.

Q Can the Spy registering as good be seen by the Grandmother?
A Yes.

Q Can the grandchild be a Townsfolk / Outsider turned evil (Bounty Hunter / Cult Leader / Goon / Mezepheles / ...)?
A At the start of the game the sober and healthy Grandmother must be shown a good player,
  and if the Grandmother is created mid game they cannot be shown a player that was turned evil.

Q If the grandchild is turned evil, does the Grandmother gain a new grandchild?
A No, it is not a continous check.
  The Grandmother is a 'you start knowing' character, not a 'you know' character,
  so if their grandchild subsequently turns evil, she does not get a new grandchild and still dies if they die to the Demon.

Q If the Grandmother is created late into the game, can their grandchild be a dead player?
A Yes.

  The only restriction on the grandchild is that they are a good player.
  Showing a dead good player is allowed and doing so protects the Grandmother from being able to trigger their own death.

Q Does the Grandmother learn if their grandchild changes (Barber / Damsel / Pit-Hag / Pixie / ...) character?
A No.  The Grandmother only "starts knowing" their character, not "knows" throughout the game.

Q The grandchild dies while the Grandmother is protected, drunk or poisoned.
  The next night, when the grandchild is still dead, does the now unprotected, sober and healthy Gran die?
A No.

Q What happens if the Grandmother is drunk or poisoned on their first night?
A The ST still marks a player as the grandchild, who can be evil,
  and then shows the Grandmother either that player or a different player, who again can be evil, and any character token for that player.
  While there is a lot of scope for causing confusion,
  a more conservative ST might just mark a good player as standard and show them to the Grandmother but with the wrong character token.

  If the marked grandchild dies to the Demon then the sober and healthy Grandmother will die, no matter if that was not who she saw.

Q Does the Grandmother die before, after or at the same time as their Demon-killed grandchild?
A Directly after.
  This would matter if the grandchild was protecting (Innkeeper / Tea Lady / ...) their Grandmother.

Q Can the Grandmother see a good Traveller?
A Yes.

Q Can the Grandmother be their own grandchild?
A Yes, but don't.

  When an ability does not specify that it must be another player then a character's ability can be applied to themself.
  So RAW the Grandmother can see themself,
  but the ST would have to have a really good reason to do this as it is unlikely to be fun.

Q The grandchild dies to the Demon.  When does the Grandmother die?
A Immediately.  The Grandmother's spot in the night order is just a reminder to the ST to kill the Grandmother if the grandchild died.

Q If the Grandmother is protected by their own grandchild (Innkeeper / Tea Lady) tonight, do they still die if the grandchild dies to the Demon?
A Yes.
  # the Demon kills the grandchild who dies ending any effects they caused which importantly includes the protection;
  # the Grandmother is no longer protected from death;
  # the Grandmother dies to her own ability.

  So even when the Innkeeper makes their own Grandmother drunk, death is unavoidable.

Q The Grandmother on their first night while drunk or poisoned is shown the Demon as their grandchild.
  If the Demon kills themself at night and the game continues (Evil Twin / Imp / Scarlet Woman)
  does the Grandmother die?
A No.

  The Grandmother is always assigned a good player as their grandchild,
  so even though the Grandmother saw the wrong grandchild on their first night,
  a good player was marked in the Grimoire as the real grandchild,
  and the sober and healthy Grandmother will only die if the marked player dies.

Q Can the grandchild be a good Demon or Minion?
A Yes.


============
=Gunslinger=
============
Q The Virgin is the first nomination today resulting in the immediate execution of the Townsfolk nominator without any voting.
  The Butcher then makes a second nomination and the votes are counted.
  Can the Gunslinger shoot one of the voting players in the second nomination?
A Yes.

  Interestingly the Gunslinger's ability refers to the first vote that has been tallied, not the first nomination of the day.
  So if in a non Butcher game the first nomination of the day happens to be on the Virgin resulting in an execution,
  no votes would be tallied, as the vote on the Virgin would be skipped, 
  and the Gunslinger would have no one to shoot.
  However, the Butcher in play allows for a second nomination where the votes _are_ counted,
  the first vote to be tallied that day,
  so the Gunslinger now can shoot a player that voted on the Butcher's nomination.

Q Can the Gunslinger kill the Lleech?
A No.

Q How does the Gunslinger work players eyes are closed during a vote because of the Organ Grinder?
A The Gunslinger does not work with the Organ Grinder,
  and it is recommended not to have them on the same script.

Q The Gunslinger may kill anyone that voted during the first vote of the day, but what if no player voted?
A Then they cannot kill anyone.

  A tally of zero votes during the first vote still means that there was a vote,
  so the Gunslinger does not get to wait to another vote where votes are actually cast.

Q If a call to exile the Gunslinger does not succeed, can the Gunslinger use their power? 
A No, supporting an exile is not a vote, and calling for exile is not a nomination.


========
=Harlot=
========
Q Can the Lleech die if they reveal to the Harlot?
A No.

Q If the Mayor agrees to be seen by the Harlot, could the ST kill the Harlot and use the Mayor bounce to kill another character?
A Yes.

Q Can the Harlot choose themself?
A Yes.  Then if they deny themself, no one dies.
  The evil Harlot might pick themself, say no, then throw suspicion on another player by claiming that they refused to reveal.

Q If the ST decides to kill off the Harlot and their target, does the Harlot still learn their info?
A Yes.


=======
=Harpy=
=======
Q When do Harpy targets die?
A At any point during the day or night until the Harpy picks again. Usually during the day though.

  The Harpy mad player must be mad that the second target is evil until the following night phase when the Harpy makes their next choice.
  So if after the town has gone to sleep the mad player unwisely reveals that that day they were Harpy mad,
  and the Harpy had yet to make a new choice that night,
  then that would constitute a madness break which can be punished.

  It is even permitted for a sneaky ST to punish a day madness break by killing off any affected player at night,
  so hiding the exact cause of death,
  but generally madness breaks during the day should cause daytime deaths.

Q Do the Harpy targets die in order?
A The order of deaths due to the Harpy ability can be chosen by the Storyteller, should that be important.

Q Do deaths caused by the Harpy count as executions?
A No, the text says "dead", not "executed", so the day continues, unlike deaths caused by the Cerenovus.


========
=Hatter=
========
Q If the Hatter dies can the evil Apprentice change their Minion ability?
A No, they are not a Minion so unaffected by the Hatter.

Q If the Hatter dies can an evil Townsfolk (Bounty Hunter / Cult Leader / Mezepheles) or the evil Goon choose a new character?
A No, only Minions and Demons are affected by the Hatter.

Q Does a Minion or a Demon waking to make a choice after the Hatter dies register to the Chambermaid?
A No, it is not their own ability causing them to wake.

Q If the Hatter dies and the Minions change characters, can they have a new Damsel guess?
A No.

Q What happens if the Hatter dies in a Legion game?
A Nothing, as per the jinx.

Q What happens if the Hatter dies in a non-Legion game and an evil player picks Legion?
A All evil players become Legion, as per the jinx.

Q If the Hatter dies on or after day five, can the Demon choose to become the Leviathan, instantly winning the game?
A No, as per the jinx.

Q If Lil' Monsta kills the Hatter (and the variant rule is not being used),
  does the babysitting Minion choose from the Minions list, the Demons list, or either list?
A The babysitter chooses a different Demon to become or they can opt to remain as Lil' Monsta by picking a Minion.

Q What is the Hatter jinx with Lil' Monsta?
A If the Demon chooses Lil' Monsta then they also choose a Minion to become and babysit Lil' Monsta tonight.

Q Is the Marionette woken when the Hatter is triggered?
A RAW they do but RAI they probably should not.

  When the Hatter dies the Mario is woken to change characters.
  If the evil team is woken together then the Mario would learn the entire evil team,
  but this can be avoided by having everyone wake separately.

  Some STs will houserule that the Demon chooses what the Mario becomes.

Q How does the Hatter and Poppy Grower interact?
A The ST should probably wake the affected players separately.

Q If the Recluse misregisters, can they change character when the Hatter dies?
A Yes, but don't as this is unlikely to be fun.

Q If the Hatter is run where Minions and Demons can switch character type,
  what happens if they all choose Minion?
A The last player's choice is denied; they have to become a Demon.

Q Does a good Minion or Demon wake due to the Hatter dying?
A Yes.

Q If the Hatter is killed at night by the Demon, do any new Minions act tonight?
A Only in the case of the Assassin and the Godfather, since they both act after the Demon kills.

Q If the Hatter dies and a Minion or the Demon is drunk / poisoned, do they still change character?
A Yes, they become the drunk / poisoned role that they chose, as the change is due to the Hatter's ability, not their own.

Q How is the Hatter ability run? / When does the Hatter ability activate?
A The Hatter ability is immediate, similar to the Barber:
  * If the Hatter dies during the day, they use their ability before any other character.
  * If the Hatter dies at night, they use their ability immediately. The night order is only a reminder.

  Each Minion and Demon chooses their role, one after the other, knowing the previous choices.

Q When the Hatter is triggered, in what order should the evil team be woken?
A The order is whatever the ST decides. 

  Whether the evils wake together or separately is up to the ST,
  but living evils should probably choose before dead.
  If the evils are woken together the ST could allow whoever wants to change first to do so.


=========
=Heretic=
=========
Q In a final three of the Cannibal, the Heretic and the Demon, the Heretic is executed. Who wins?
--BEST_GUESS
A The concensus is that good wins.

  The game ended at the point when the Heretic was executed and the Cannibal did not have the Heretic ability.
  This results in a final two where the Demon is alive, so an evil win,
  that is then flipped by the only Heretic ability in play to a good win.
  There was no period of time between the execution and the game ending for the Cannibal to gain the Heretic ability,
  giving rise to two Heretic abilities that cancel each other out, making win conditions normal again.
  
  This is a reasonable interpretation, but as there is no definitive ruling 
  this may be dependent on what the ST and the group decides is best.

Q Who wins when the Marionette who thinks they are the Atheist successfully convinces Town to execute the ST in a Heretic game?
A Good wins when the ST is executed with the Heretic in play but the Atheist is not.

  The Marionette does not have the Atheist ability so the game proceeds as if there were no Atheist.
  Execution of the ST without an Atheist ability in play means evil wins,
  but the Heretic flips the evil win to a good win.

Q Why does the Baron have a possible +1 to Outsiders when the Heretic is on the script?
A Because otherwise in a base two Outsiders game with the Baron and only four Outsiders on the script,
  the evil team can know for sure that the Heretic is in play,
  and then the Demon can kill themself and win.

Q The Fearmonger executes the good Lleech host in a Heretic game. Who wins?
A Good wins.

  Abilities trump normal win conditions.  
  So although the Demon died (good win) the Fearmonger win condition takes precedence (evil win), then the Heretic flips this to a good win.

Q Could the Ojo attack the Heretic twice to confirm it is a Heretic game?
A No.

  The ST has control over the kills when the Ojo picks an out of play character so can simulate what would happen in a Heretic game,
  by choosing to sink the kill into a dead player after the second attack in a non-Heretic game.

  The first time the Ojo attacks the Heretic, a player dies:
  * when the Heretic is in play, the Heretic dies.
  * when the Heretic is out of play, the ST should kill an arbitrary player.

  The second time the Ojo attacks the Heretic, no one dies:
  * when the Heretic is in play, there is no death, since a dead character cannot die again;
  * when the Heretic is out of play, the ST should sink the kill.

  With the outcome the same for both the Heretic and non-Heretic game there is no confirmation for the Ojo.

Q In a final three of the Heretic, the Demon, and the Poisoner who is poisoning the Heretic, if the Poisoner is executed, does good win?
A Yes. The Poisoner being executed means the Heretic is no longer poisoned, and since the evil win condition is satisfied in a Heretic game, good wins.

Q The evil twinned Saint and the Heretic are in play. The Saint gets executed. Who wins?
A The Heretic applies last, so the Saint being executed (assuming they are the good Saint) would cause evil to win,
  then the Heretic flips it to a good win, unaffected by the Evil Twin. 
  This means that evil cannot win in a Heretic game so long as the Twins are both alive.

Q Why does the Heretic misregister as an out of play Outsider to the Godfather, the Spy and the Widow?
A The Godfather knows which Outsiders are in play and the Spy and the Widow get to see the Grimoire.
  If any of these characters learnt that the Heretic is in play, they could tell the Demon to kill themself, resulting in a free win for evil.

Q If the Heretic is drunk or poisoned what happens?
A If the Heretic, regardless of living status, is drunk or poisoned when the game ends,
  then her ability does not function so the win conditions are not reversed.

---------------------------------------------------------------combine
--What happens when there is more than one Heretic ability in play?
Q What happens if there are two Heretic abilities in play, due to the Cannibal or the Philosopher?
A Two sober and healthy Heretic abilities would cancel each other out, making win conditions normal again.
  If one of the Heretic abilities is drunk, say due to the Philosopher Heretic making the Heretic drunk, then win conditions are flipped.

Q Does an alive Philosopher Heretic making the Heretic drunk cause win conditions to be flipped?
A Yes, since only the Philo's Heretic ability is working.

  The dead Philosopher retains an "even while dead" ability so should they die then,
  assuming no other sources of poison or drunkenness,
  both Heretic abilities would function, cancelling each other out,
  making win conditions normal again.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Q Does the good wins ties rule apply before or after the Heretic's ability?
A The Heretic flips the winning team after the game has ended.
  So if two win conditions are satisfied at once,
  good wins on ties,
  which is then flipped by the Heretic causing evil to win.

  For example, in a final three of the Heretic, the Vortox and the Mayor the day ends without execution results in an evil win:
  No execution with three alive with both Vortox and Mayor in play means a good character win condition competing with an evil character win condition, so good wins.
  The Heretic ability is then applied, so evil wins.

Q If the Demon killed themself in a Heretic game but the Heretic became drunk afterwards (but in the same night), would that be a good win?
A No. The game would end instantly as the Demon dies; nothing would happen later in the night.
  The Heretic would have to be drunk or poisoned before the Demon dies.


================
=High Priestess=
================
Q Could the High Priestess learn the ST if the Duchess is in play?
A No, the ST is not a player, so cannot be learned as a player to talk to.

Q Who does the High Priestess see in a Vortox game?
A The only restriction is that the ST does not give the one player that they would have given if it was not a Vortox game.
  It does not have to be the least helpful player to talk to.

Q Can the High Priestess be shown themself?
A Yes.

Q Can the High Priestess only receive living players?
A No, they can be shown dead players too.

Q Who does the drunk or poisoned High Priestess see?
A Anyone.


==========
=Huntsman=
==========
Q As per the jinx, the Marionette who believes that they are the Huntsman still adds the Damsel to the game.
  Does the Drunk who believes that they are the Huntsman add the Damsel?
A No.

  The reason for the jinx between the Marionette and the Huntsman is because it is not possible to who will neighbour the Demon,
  and therefore what character will be replaced by the Marionette,
  so the Huntsman setup [+1 Damsel] must happen as the token distribution is being decided upon.
  The Drunk in contrast could be decided before tokens are distributed.

Q Can the Pixie see the Huntsman?
A Yes.  This would confirm to the Pixie that both the Huntsman and the Damsel are in play.

Q Does the Huntsman change the Outsider count or does it turn an already existing Outsider into the Damsel?
A ST choice, but players tend to prefer an existing Outsider is swapped.

  It is legal to add an extra Outsider on top of the base count,
  which the ST might want to do depending on how weak or strong the good and evil characters in play are,
  or just to be occasionally unpredictable.
  But generally the Huntsman does not, as it makes the Huntsman a [+1 Outsider] ability which does seem a terrible Townsfolk ability.

Q Could the Huntsman add the Damsel and then the Godfather or the Vigormortis remove it?
A No, the end result is an illegal setup.

Q In a base two Outsiders game, if both the Godfather and the Huntsman are in play,
  does the Huntsman modify the base two Outsiders or can the Damsel be the +1 Outsider added by the Godfather?
A With the Huntsman's ability, the ST:
   either changes a Townsfolk into the Damsel (so +1 Outsider), 
   or changes instead an existing Outsider into the Damsel (no change in the Outsider count).
  Note however that the Huntsman cannot add a second Damsel while there is already one in play.

  In a Huntsman Godfather game, the Outsider count could be anywhere between one and four in a base two Outsider game:
  * 1 Outsider: The Damsel. The Godfather removed an Outsider
  * 2 Outsiders: The Godfather removed an Outsider and the Huntsman changed a Townsfolk into the Damsel.
  * 3 Outsiders: The Damsel is already in play and the Godfather added an Outsider.
  * 4 Outsiders: Godfather added an Outsider and the Huntsman changed a Townsfolk into the Damsel.

  Probably some of them are unbalanced, but all of these are technically allowed.


=====
=Imp=
=====
Q Can a Monk-protected Minion still become the Demon after the Imp self-kills?
A Yes.

  The Monk protected player is safe from the Demon,
  protecting against harmful effects such as death, poison, or turning evil.
  Changing characters, including becoming the Demon,
  is not a harmful effect so the Imp can successfully pass to a Minion even when Monk protected.

  If the Monk protects the Imp about to self-kill however then the jump is blocked.

Q If the Imp self-kills, do they remain an Imp for character checkers (Dreamer / Fortune Teller / Ravenkeeper / ...)?
A Yes.

Q When the Imp self-kills, who becomes the Imp?
A Any living Minion regardless of alignment or the Recluse, registering as a Minion, can become the Imp.

  Obviously an evil Minion should be prioritised, with the Scarlet Woman the first choice if they are alive, sober and healthy and there are 5+ alive players.
  Should a good Minion or the Recluse become the Imp their character may have changed but not their alignment; they become the good Imp.

Q When an Imp self-kills, and there are several Minions alive, is there a priority order for who should become the new Demon?
A The Scarlet Woman must become the Demon if their ability is active (alive, not drunk or poisoned, 5+ alive players), as that is the entire point of their ability.
  Otherwise, it is the ST's choice which living Minion becomes the Imp from the Imp's ability. 

Q When an Imp self-kills turning a Minion into a new Imp, are the entire evil team notified about the identity of the new Demon? 
A No, only the new Imp.  The other evils are not notified, but they will know that it happened since their Demon died.

Q If an Imp self-kills do they get to choose which Minion becomes the new Imp assuming there is no Scarlet Woman?
A No, that is the ST's choice.
  The evil team can of course inform the ST of a plan they have involving the starpass landing on a specific Minion,
  and the ST may choose to aid that plan, but the ST is not obligated to do so.
 
Q If the Imp kills the Mayor, can the ST use the Mayor to bounce the kill back to the Imp, forcing the starpass?
A Yes.

  Yes, kills bounced by the Mayor count as having come from the original source,
  so it would be as if the Imp targeted themself.

Q Can multiple Imps self-kill in one game? / Can the Imp change more than once in the same game?
A Yes, it is part of the Imp's ability and is not a once per game action like the Fang Gu jump.
  
  The physical game comes with four Imp tokens, since (not including Recluse hijinks) that is how many Imps there could end up being.

Q Can a self-killing Imp pass to an evil Townsfolk?
A No, only a Minion, or perhaps a Recluse misregistering as a Minion.

Q If the self-killing Imp passes to a good Minion or the Recluse registering as a Minion, do they become evil?
A No, their alignment is unchanged.

Q If there are two Imps in play, does the first killing the second cause the second to jump to a Minion?
A No, an Imp must kill themself in order to trigger the jump.

  The "you" in an ability refers to that ability instance, not a generalised version of that ability.


===========
=Innkeeper=
===========
Q If the unpicked Goon is targeted last by a multi-kill Demon (charged Po / Shabaloth), the Demon's previous picks still die.
  However, if the Innkeeper chooses to protect the unpicked Goon second, their first pick is unprotected.  Why?
A The difference between a multi-kill Demon and the Innkeeper is that kills are instant and are not retroactively undone if the Demon loses their ability,
  while the Innkeeper needs their ability to protect players.

Q The Shabaloth picks the Innkeeper first, then one of the Innkeeper's picks second.
  Who dies and how is the Innkeeper drunking affected?
A The order of the Shab's choices matters and characters die, if they can, as they are chosen.
  So the Innkeeper dies the moment they are chosen and any protection and drunking they are the source of leaves the Grimoire immediately.

Q Can the Innkeeper pick themself?
A Yes.  The ST now must decide if this causes the Innkeeper to be drunk, switching off the protection.  If they are drunk, then neither they or their chosen target are protected.
  If their other pick is instead drunk then both cannot die tonight.

Q How long does the Innkeeper protection last for?
A The targets are safe for tonight only.
  However one of the targets is drunk for tonight and the next day.

Q Does the Innkeeper drunk player stay drunk if they swap character (Barber / Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / Summoner / ...)?
A Yes.


==============
=Investigator=
==============
Q Can a preached Minion still be seen by the Investigator?
A Yes, a preached Minion is still a Minion and can be investigated.

Q Can the Investigator see the Recluse as a certain Minion?
A Yes, and this is a common occurrence.

  The ST is free to show the Investigator any Minion from the script and then point to the Recluse and any other player.

Q Can the Spy in a single Minion game misregister to the Investigator,
  giving them a 'no'?
A Yes, this is legal.  The Investigator will then know that there the Spy is in the game, but will not know who it is.
  However, this is generally not recommended as it is not much fun; just let the Investigator see the Spy.

Q Can the Librarian or Investigator ping on themself, such as when seeing the Drunk or the Marionette respectively?
A The Librarian and the Investigator are players, so they can see themselves. 
  So this is a legal move, if not necessarily a fun one.

Q Can a drunk or poisoned Investigator see an out of play Minion?
A Yes, and often they absolutely should.


=======
=Judge=
=======
Q Why are the evil Judge and the Fearmonger a broken combination?
A The Judge can force through whatever nomination the Fearmonger makes even if it gets zero votes.
  For this reason it is not recommended to have the Judge as a Traveller option on a Fearmonger script.

Q Can the Judge force through the execution of the Organ Grinder?
A Yes.

  The Judge forces a nomination to pass or fail, which is completely independent of the vote count,
  so the Judge can force a vote on the Organ Grinder to pass even if the Organ Grinder did not vote.

Q Can a Judge use their power to execute the most recently nominated non-Traveller player while the Judge themself is in the middle of a call for exile?
A Yes, an exile is not a nomination. However, some STs disallow abilities to be used while votes / raised hands are being tallied.


=========
=Juggler=
=========
Q The Barber dies and N2 the Demon swaps the Juggler with another player.
  Which player gets the Juggler's number tonight?
A No one, but the new Juggler as a new instance of the ability can juggle the following day,
  as that is their "first day", and if they somehow live long enough will get a number on the third night.

Q The Bone Collector picks the dead Juggler.  When does the Juggler need to juggle?
A They must juggle during the day, when they are dead and have no ability,
  and then the following night when they are bone collected they get their info.

Q If the Juggler changes character (Barber / Pit-Hag / Summoner / ...) on the night she would have received her number, does she still receive info of her juggles? 
A No.

Q If the Juggler juggles the Recluse as the Recluse could they get a zero?
A Yes.

Q If the Juggler juggles the Recluse as five evil characters could they get a five?
A Yes, although arguably a bad idea.

  Part of the Recluse's ability is "each time the Recluse is targeted by an ability that detects or affects evil characters,
  choose which character and alignment the Recluse registers as." 
  Each juggle is evaluated individually so the Recluse can be seen as whatever is being checked each time.
  
  The ST should probably not give the Recluse this much confirmation,
  but if the Recluse was part of a more complicated set of juggles then misregistration could obfuscate the other juggles. 

Q When does a mid game created Juggler (Barber / Cannibal / Damsel / Philosopher / Pit-Hag / Pixie / ...) have to juggle?
A It is the first day with the Juggler ability that a player can juggle.
  So they would juggle the day after they become the Juggler and learn their info the following night.

Q The Juggler can juggle someone as multiple characters but can they juggle a player as the same character multiple times?
A No.

  For example, the Juggler cannot juggle one player as one character twice, and another player as a different character three times,
  in an attempt to narrow down their info.
  
-----------------combine
Q D1 is cut short because of an execution due to madness break.
  How does this affect the Juggler?
A ST decision.

  Either:
  * they wake to receive a number, zero in a non-Vortox game, anything but zero if it is;
  * they do not wake at all.

  The decision depends on how the Juggler ability is interpreted which states that they must Juggle publicly to get a number.
  The Juggler who states that they would like to juggle then juggles nothing is performing a Vortox check.

  The ST should clarify how they run it.

Q If the Juggler does not juggle, do they still get a number?
A This can be ruled either way:
  * even if they do not claim Juggler they can still get information.
  * the "public" aspect of Juggler requires an actual claim in Town Square and no claim means no info.

  These are both legitimate rulings, and can make a difference in a Vortox game.
  The ST should clarify how they run this.
----------------------

Q What happens when a correctly juggled player changes character (Barber / Engineer/ Hatter / Pit-Hag / Summoner / ...) before the Juggler receives their number?
A The info is tied to what was true at the time of the juggle;
  what happens after does not affect the Juggler number, so any characters changes since the juggle are irrelevant.

  At the time of the juggle, the ST would have placed correct juggle reminder tokens next to the correctly juggled players,
  and it is the number of tokens placed that is reported to the Juggler.

Q How does a dead Juggler that is resurrected (Al-Hadikhia / Professor / ...) work?
A She gets a completely fresh ability, so can she juggle the following day and get a number the following night.

Q Does the drunk or poisoned Juggler get false info?
A They can.
  What matters is whether they are drunk or poisoned at the time they receive info from the ST.

  During their first day any correct juggles are marked in the Grimoire, regardless of drunkenness and poisoning.
  That night, if they are sober and healthy they get correct info.
  Otherwise the ST can deceive them with any number.


========
=Kazali=
========
Q How is the Alchemist affected by the Kazali's picks?
A Once the Kazali has chosen her Minions, the ST will give the Alchemist an out of play Minion ability.

Q How is the game affected if the Balloonist is turned into a Minion by the Kazali?
A The Balloonist's setup effect can be duplicated by the Kazali's, so the Balloonist is a valid pick.

Q When the Kazali picks the Baron, are two extra Outsiders added?
A No, nothing happens.

Q Does a Townsfolk player still turn evil if the Kazali turns the Bounty Hunter into a Minion?
A No.  As per the jinx, an evil Townsfolk is only created if the BH remains in play after the Kazali acts.

Q Does waking to learn that you are now a Minion in a Kazali game register to the Chambermaid?
A No, as that is not waking due to their ability, but the Kazali's.

Q As per the jinx the Kazali cannot choose the King to become a Minion if the Choirboy is in play.
  How is this run, since the Demon does not yet know who the King is?
A If the King and Choirboy are both in play and the Kazali happens to randomly choose the King,
  the ST shakes their head no and forces them to choose again.
  If after all of their picks the King still exists, the Kazali is told who the King is.
  The Kazali will then suspect the likely existence of the Choirboy.

Q Do the Minions still learn about the Damsel if the Damsel was picked by the Kazali to be a Minion?
A No, they would only learn about the Damsel if they remain unpicked, and after the Kazali has made all her Minion picks.

Q Apart from the Goon, is there any other way for the Kazali to be affected by poisoning or drunking characters on N1?
A No, the Kazali acts before all such characters.

Q What happens when the Kazali picks the Goon to be a Minion?
A As per the jinx, the Goon becomes evil and the Minion the Kazali chose. 
  The Kazali is now drunk for the rest of N1 so any remaining Minion picks are ignored by the ST who decides the rest of the evil team herself.
  During Minion info, when the Kazali is told their true Minions, they will likely guess what happened.

Q What is the Kazali jinx with the Huntsman?
A If the Kazali chooses the Damsel to become a Minion, and the Huntsman is in play, a good player becomes the Damsel.

Q When does the Kazali learn the King?
A After she has picked her Minions.

Q Does the Demon learn who the Lunatic Kazali chose as their Minions?
A Technically the Lunatic ability requires this, but the ST is free to choose that they do not.
  They certainly do not learn what characters the Lunatic chose for their Minions.

Q How does the Magician work in a Kazali game?
A The ST should put the Kazali to sleep when waking each Minion to tell them their character has changed,
  then show both the Demon and the Magician during the Minion info step.

Q Can the Kazali choose to make the Marionette?
A Yes, she must choose one of her neighbours though.

Q What info is there to hide from the Kazali in a game with the Poppy Grower? 
A During Demon info the Kazali is not told who their Minions are, even though they just picked them.
  They do learn their bluffs and any other relevant info to the Demon (Marionette, King, Lunatic).

  The Minions are told their new character and any other relevant information (Damsel) but do not learn the Kazali.
  When running in person games, the ST should put the Kazali to sleep and wake each Minion separately.

  Most of the time it is not that important as the Kazali can just gather the evil team together and get them up to speed,
  though it is more relevant if the Goon or the Soldier are on the script which can disrupt the Kazali's picks.

Q Can the Kazali's setup be affected by the Puzzlemaster?
A No.  [Setup effects] always happen before any other start of game effects such as the Puzzlemaster's,
  so the Kazali's [You choose which players are which Minions] setup ability happens before deciding who is made drunk by the Puzzlemaster.

  This means that, for example:
  * the Kazali will have made Minions before they became Puzzlemaster drunk,
  * the Soldier cannot be turned into a Minion; they can only become Puzzlemaster drunk after the Kazali picks.

Q What happens if the Soldier is N1 selected by the Kazali?
A As per the jinx the Soldier still turns into a Minion but the Soldier decides which out of play Minion to become.

Q How does the Spirit of Ivory affect the Kazali turning other players evil?
A The Spirit of Ivory is about the creation of extra evil players, specifically there can be no more than one extra.
  The players turned evil by the Kazali are not extra, they are considered to be part of the normal evil count.

Q Can the ST give a new Minion's previous character to the Kazali as a bluff?
A Yes, but that might be considered nerfing the power of the Kazali.

Q What does the Kazali's [-? or +? Outsiders] setup modifier mean exactly? 
A It works as a wild card so that no matter what Minions the Kazali creates,
  and what number of Outsiders or Townsfolk are replaced, 
  the result will always be a valid setup.

  If the Kazali chose an Outsider, then their setup was [-1 Outsider]. 
  If an extra Outsider was added to the base count but then the Kazali chose none, their setup was [+1 Outsider].
  
  The players have to keep that in mind when the Outsider count is not aligning with what should be in play.


======
=King=
======
Q Does the Demon learn of the Apprentice King?
A Yes.

Q Can "the King" for the Choirboy ability refer to any character with the King ability?
A No, the King only. Philosopher King, Drunk King, Marionette King, Cannibal King, Pixie King - none of these would count for the Choirboy ability.

Q Can the King learn the Minion character that the ST has the ability of via the Plague Doctor?
A No, the ST may have that Minion's ability but they are not that character.

Q What does the King learn in a Vortox game?
A Characters that are out of play or already dead.

Q Does the Zombuul who is registering as dead count towards the King's "dead outnumber the living" requirement?
A Yes.

Q What happens when a new instance of the King is created mid game (Barber / Cannibal / Damsel / Philosopher / Pit-Hag / Pixie / ...)?
A If there are enough dead, the player can get information that night.
  
  Also the Demon learns the player as the King immediately,
  and if she did not learn of a King on N1,
  then she will reason that the Choirboy is out of play,
  and that she can kill the new King with impunity.

Q If the King is resurrected (Bone Collector / Professor / Shabaloth) is the Demon told again who the King is?
A Yes.

Q Does the Demon learn the Drunk who believes that they are the King?
A No. The Drunk believing that they are the King is not the King.
  On the other hand, the King who on their first night is drunk or poisoned does not alert the Demon until they are sober and healthy.

Q Does the Demon learn the Marionette who believes that they are the King as the King?
A No. The Marionette believing that they are the King is not the King.

Q Does a newly created Demon learn who the King is?
A Yes. The King's ability, which is a constant check, says "the Demon knows" so new Demons learn who the King is.

Q If the King is drunk or poisoned N1, does the Demon learn who they are?
A The Demon learns the King during Demon info,
  so the King would need _start_ the game drunk or poisoned in order to stop the Demon being informed.
  This can only happend via No Dashii poisoning, Puzzlemaster drunkenness or being the Drunk.

  Other abilities that cause drunkenness and poisoning act after Demon info,
  but should the King come into play mid game then they could prevent the Demon from learning the new King.


=======
=Klutz=
=======
Q The Klutz gets nominated in a Riot game and dies. Do they have to pick someone before (optionally) nominating?
A Yes. Their countdown will restart if the game is continuing. So it would look like this:
  #  ST: <Klutz> dies. 3... 2...
  #  Klutz: I claim Klutz and pick x.
  #  ST: The game continues. 3... 2...

Q If the evil Klutz dies in final three, do they still have to make a pick?
A No. By the time they learn that they died there are only two players left alive, so the game is over.


========
=Knight=
========
Q Can the Knight see Legion?
A No, they must see two non-Legion players as each Legion player is a Demon and cannot be seen by the Knight even when registering as a Minion.

Q Can the Knight see the ST if Atheist is on the script?
A No, the ST is not a player.  However, if the Atheist is in play then the ST breaking the rules can be shown.

Q Can the Knight see the Recluse?
A ST choice; it depends on how the Recluse registers.


========
=Legion=
========
Q What does the Balloonist see in a Legion game?
A A Townsfolk, an Outsider and two Legions as each Legion also registers as a Minion.

Q Does Legion register to the Chambermaid?
A No, Legion players never wake from their own ability.

Q How does the Exorcist interact with Legion?
A When the Exorcist picks a Legion player,
  that player learns the Exorcist,
  but deaths due to Legion are not prevented that night as Legion does not wake.

Q Does any Legion player voting in a nomination register to the Flowergirl?
A Yes, regardless of whether the vote tally ends up being zero.

Q Can the Fortune Teller receive a yes on any Legion player?
A Yes, plus they still have a Red Herring.

Q Does a Legion registering as a Minion die if nominated by the Golem?
A No, they register as both a Demon and a Minion simultaneously.

Q What can the Investigator see in a Legion game?
A They can be shown a Legion player and any other player, including a second Legion player, as any Minion on the script.

  The Investigator would not see a Legion token, as that is a Demon token.
  Each Legion can register as a Minion, as well a Demon, so character checkers (Investigator / Undertaker / Dreamer / Ravenkeeper / ...)
  can see a Minion token instead of a Legion,
  which is recommended given that the ST typically wants to help Legion deceive town as to whether Legion is in play. 

Q Can the drunk Investigator learn of a Legion who is out of play?
A No, the Investigator can never see Legion; Legion registers as a Minion, but the Legion character is not a Minion character.

Q Does the Juggler juggling a Legion as a Minion always get a one?
A No, the Legion player can register as a specific Minion that is not the one juggled.

Q Do Legion learn the King?
A The ST can show as many Legion as she wishes that the King is in play.  At least one Legion player is recommended.

Q Could the Lunatic think that they are a Legion in a Legion game?
A Yes.

Q What happens when the Pit-Hag makes a Legion mid game?
A The chosen player, and _only_ that player, becomes Legion.
  They do not change alignment.

  They are not informed of any other Demons or Minions, as that is part of the evil info step that happens on N1,
  but they may learn of them in the future should the last active Poppy Grower ability die.

Q What is the Preacher jinx with Legion?
A If the Preacher chooses Legion, Legion keeps their ability, but the Preacher might learn they are Legion.

Q Can the drunk or poisoned Preacher be told that they picked a Legion?
A Yes, drunk or poisoned players can be told false info based on jinxes.

Q If the Puzzlemaster guesses their drunk player in a game with multiple Demons (Fang Gu / Imp / Legion / Riot / ...), what happens?
A The ST chooses one Demon player to show them.
  Their ability states they learn "the Demon" so the choice should be a living Demon if possible,
  since, in a game where there are multiple Demons, the game defines "the Demon" to be a living Demon, while both living and dead Demons are "a Demon".

Q If the Recluse and all Legion vote, can the ST count it as zero votes?
A Yes but don't.
  The evil team would not appreciate an Outsider ability being used to expose everyone who voted.

Q What happens if Legion kill the Sage?
A The Sage learns "two players, one of which is the Demon who killed them".
  So the ST can show any Legion player as the one that killed the Sage
  and any other player (including another Legion).
  The only illegal option is to show two non-Legion players.

Q Can the ST kill the Sage at night and show them an exorcised Legion player as the Demon that killed them?
A No.
  Legion, like the Lil' Monsta, does not wake to kill, with kills directed by the ST.
  So while exorcism may not stop Demon kills,
  the Sage would still need to see a Legion player that is capable of killing,
  meaning that an exorcised Legion cannot legally be seen by the Sage as their correct ping.

Q Can Legion register as a Minion to the Slayer?
A Yes, but this would be in addition to registering as a Demon, not instead of, so the Legion player will stay die.

  Legion registers as both Legion and an arbitrary Minion at all times,
  with said Minion misregistration only overriding their normal registration if an ability forces a collapse into one state or the other.
  In the case of the Slayer,
  it has no effect since the Slayer ability does not have any exclusive interactions with Minions;
  as such, they still get killed for registering as the Demon.

Q What happens if a Legion gets snake charmed?
A The Snake Charmer becomes Legion, and the Legion who was chosen becomes a poisoned Snake Charmer.

Q Does an evil Townsfolk (turned by Bounty Hunter / flipped Cult Leader) vote count in a Legion game?
A No.  Votes still need a good player to pass.

Q What do character checkers (Dreamer/Gambler/Harlot/Juggler/Ravenkeeper/Undertaker) see when they pick a Legion player?
A They can see a Minion since Legion registers as a Minion in the same way that the Recluse does.

Q Can there be the same number of Legion as there are good players?
A No, that is an illegal setup.
  'Most players are Legion' requires Legion to outnumber the good players.
  The recommended setup is to invert the standard good:evil ratio, so a 12 player setup would have 9 Legion and 3 good players.

Q Legion do not know other Legions, right?
A Legion learn other Demons/Minions like normal.

Q Can all alive Legion potentially kill one player? / Can the ST kill multiple players with Legion in one night?
A Yes.

  Each alive Legion ability can kill one player and multiple Legion abilities can be activated at night.
  So there can be a number of kills up to the number of active Legion,
  though Legion should usually never kill more than two, and if they do multi-kill it should be multiple Legions.
  Multi-kill is usually done to simulate other Demons or Minion abilities or to support a world pushed by the Legions.
  For example, if a Legion is bluffing Gossip and asks the ST to kill an extra player tonight, the ST will typically comply and kill one more Legion.

Q Do Legions learn each other in a Teensyville game?
A No.

Q What is good's win condition in a Legion game?
A Good's win condition is always to have every Demon dead.
  That is why, for Storytelling purposes, the final three has to be two good players and one Legion to make it winnable for the good team.


===========
=Leviathan=
===========
Q What is the Banshee jinx with the Leviathan?
A If the Banshee is executed in a Leviathan game,
  all players learn that the Banshee has died, and the Banshee gains their ability.

Q The Choirboy is useless in a Leviathan game or is there a special rule like with the Ravenkeeper, the Sage, etc.?
A There is no jinx.
  The King is also usually useless with the Leviathan because the dead will not outnumber the living unless there are a lot of other killing roles.

Q D1 a good player is executed. N2 the Courtier drunks the Leviathan and the next day the Courtier is executed. Does the game end immediately?
A No. The Leviathan was drunk when the Courtier was executed, so they did not see the second execution.

Q If the Exorcist picks the Leviathan, what happens?
A The Leviathan wakes up to learn the Exorcist.
  After that there is no impact.

Q A Minion is executed on D5 of a Leviathan game. Does the Minstrel activate, allowing for good to win by executing the Leviathan on D6?
A Yes.

  The Leviathan will be drunk until the end of the next day at dusk, so their win condition cannot trigger until they sober up.
  Any execution will happen before this time giving the good team the chance to execute the Leviathan.

Q Is a Pit-Hag making a Leviathan after day 5 an automatic win for evil?
A No, there is a jinx preventing the PH from creating the Levi after day 5.

Q The Pit-Hag creates a Leviathan and the ST kills the old Leviathan.
  If a good player has already been executed, would executing the good Leviathan lose the game for the good team or win it?
  Does the "two good executions" counter reset?
A The Pit-Hag cannot turn someone into a character that is in play so this cannot happen.
  Any individual Leviathan does have its own good player executed counter though, if it was not alive and sober to see an execution, it did not count to them.

Q On N1 the Poisoner learns two players as the Demon.  Could she poison one to confirm who is the Leviathan and who is the Magician?
A Yes.

  If the Leviathan is drunk or poisoned then no announcement goes out until they are sober and healthy.
  So, unless the ST runs the Leviathan differently, the Poisoner could use this to confirm the real Demon.

Q What happens when the Ravenkeeper / Sage is executed and dies in a Leviathan game?
A As per the jinx, the Ravenkeeper / Sage wakes that night to use their ability, but they are drunk if their nominator was good.

------------------combine
Q With the Leviathan,
  if the Recluse is the second good player to be executed can they register as evil to continue the game,
  then later change how they register to make evil win at any time?
A No, the Leviathan's win condition is only checked at the time of execution.

Q Can the Recluse register as evil so that their death not count towards the Leviathan's win condition?
A Yes.
-----------------------

Q The Widow poisons the Leviathan permanently. During the first four days, town executes 2+ good players. D5 the Widow is executed.
  Does the sober Leviathan need to see two more good players executed, or does evil win after the Widow is executed?
A The poisoned Leviathan did not "see" any good executions so when she becomes healthy her count is at zero,
  but the sober and healthy Leviathan does win the game because day 5 is over.

Q If the Leviathan is N1 drunk or poisoned the announcement does not go out.
  When are they announced after they become sober and healthy?
A At dawn of the first day that they are sober and healthy.
  Additionally:
  * the day counter is universal so does not start from zero;
  * their execution counter only starts now;
  * if it is after day 5 then evil win via the Leviathan's wincon.

Q If the Leviathan becomes drunk or poisoned after the first dusk,
  are the players told that the Leviathan is in play when they become sober and healthy?
A No, all players already know the Leviathan is in play if they have been already been announced.
  The extra day notifications are just there for the players to remember the day count.

Q If the Leviathan becomes another Demon (Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / ...) does everybody learn that the Leviathan is no longer in play?
A No.
  There is no active ability letting players know the Leviathan's state,
  so there is no mechanical reason to tell the town the Leviathan is out of play. 
  Some STs will announce the Leviathan is in play every day in which case they would have to stop saying that, but it is not required.

  This is similar to how:
  * the Good Twin is not informed if the Evil Twin becomes a different character,
  * the Vizier is not announced as no longer being the Vizier when swapped to another character, etc.

Q Can the Leviathan kill at night?
A No, that is not part of their ability.

Q If the Leviathan is executed on day five, and the Scarlet Woman is in the game, what happens?
A The SW becomes the new Levi and the game ends with an evil win.
  Despite it being a new instance of the Levi, the day count is universal and does not reset,
  so the Levi's wincon is met.

Q Can the Leviathan win the game with a regular Demon wincon?
A Yes, evil's normal win condition of two players alive always applies and ends the game.

  Where there are lots of killing characters on the script, and the Leviathan stays alive with only one remaining alive player, this is possible.

Q If the Leviathan gets drunk or poisoned, do the days reset?
A No, the days are universal.  However, any good executions while the Leviathan is drunk or poisoned do not count towards their win condition.

Q What happens when players are executed but do not die in a Leviathan game?
A As long as the player is good, their execution counts towards the win condition of two executed good players.
  It does not matter if they do not die because of protection or already being dead.

Q Do previous executions count if the Leviathan comes into play (Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag) mid game?
A No.

  The Leviathan must be sober, healthy and in play
  for executions of good players to count towards their win condition.


===========
=Librarian=
===========
Q If the only Outsider in play is the Recluse, could the Librarian learn a zero?
A Yes.

Q Can the Librarian be shown as the Outsider that the Spy is registering as?
A Yes.
  The ST points to the Spy and one other player and shows them any Outsider token.

  When the Spy is one of the players shown to the Librarian, the shown character is allowed to be:
  # out of play,
  # the in play character of the non-Spy player in the shown pair,
  # the in play character of another player, not shown to the Librarian.


=============
=Lil' Monsta=
=============
Q If the Atheist is on the script, can the Minions give the Lil' Monsta to the ST?
A No, as the ST is not a player.

Q Is the Banshee ability triggered if they die to a Minion (Assassin / Harpy / Psychopath / ...) holding Lil' Monsta?
--BEST_GUESS
A Yes.

  Regardless of when it happens, should the Banshee be killed by the babysitter then the ST should instantly announce that the Banshee has awoken.

Q If a player holding Lil' Monsta Barber swaps herself with a different player, does the Lil' Monsta token stay where it is or does it follow the swap?
--BEST_GUESS
A Since the Barber only swaps characters, and no player is Lil' Monsta, the Lil' Monsta token stays put.

Q What happens when a Traveller is the babysitter and the Engineer attempts to switch the Demon from the Lil' Monsta?
A This depends if the ST is running the optional rule that Travellers may switch character types:
  * if they can, then the change will be very obvious;
  * if they cannot, then nothing happens.

Q If the Exorcist picks the player holding Lil' Monsta what happens?
--BEST_GUESS
A The Exorcist only ever stops the Demon, if selected, waking up to use their own ability,
  but Lil' Monsta never wakes in order to kill so if the babysitter is selected the LM kill still goes through.
  However, as the babysitter is registering as "the Demon", they do not wake to use their own ability.
  In LM games the Exorcist is essentially a really bad Preacher.

Q If the Good Twin babysitting Lil' Monsta is executed while the Evil Twin is alive, which team wins?
A Evil.

  Evil wins because the ET ability win condition of the Good Twin being executed while the ET lives trumps the good team's regular win condition of no living Demons.
  In order to win the good team need to execute the ET first before they execute the Good Twin holding Lil' Monsta.

  Generally, win conditions due to character abilities trump normal game win conditions.
  There are some exceptions to this, including some where LM is involved,
  but this scenario is not one of them.

Q Does the player holding the Lil' Monsta token register as the Demon to the Flowergirl?
A Yes. The Flowergirl looks back so would learn if the player holding the token in the day voted even if the token moved that night.

Q Does the player holding Lil' Monsta register as the Demon to the Fortune Teller?
A Yes.

Q If the Gambler gambles a player as Lil' Monsta, does she die every time?
A Yes, a player is never LM.

Q What happens if the public Goblin holding Lil' Monsta is executed?
A Good wins, as it would be impossible for good to win otherwise.

Q If the Klutz picks the good player holding Lil' Monsta, does their team lose?
A No, since they picked a good player; a good player holding LM is the good Demon.

Q The Lunatic, the Marionette and the King are all "the Demon knows who you are" abilities.  How does this work in a Lil' Monsta game?
A Each time the player holding Lil' Monsta changes they become "the Demon" and, the first time they become the babysitter, they are told who those characters are.
  Additionally they learn who the Lunatic picks.

  If the Marionette babysits Lil' Monsta, while they still learn the King and the Lunatic along with their picks,
  they do not learn that they are the Marionette because of the Marionette jinx with Lil' Monsta.

  Hilariously if the Lunatic is for real given Lil' Monsta (as opposed to the ST simulating this)
  then, as well as learning that they are the babysitter and being shown the King and the Marionette,
  they learn that they are their own Lunatic,
  and are told their own Lunatic choices. 

Q Does a Lil' Monsta Lunatic work? Would the Lunatic think they are a Minion?
A No, it would need another Demon on the script for the Lunatic to think they are.

Q Is the Magician still woken each night when the Lil' Monsta is on the script but out of play?
A Yes.

  The jinx between the two characters requires that the Magician be woken up each night to pick a Minion.
  The Magician's choice only has an effect when the Lil' Monsta is in play.
  The Magician is always woken so that it is not immediately obvious that the Lil' Monsta is out of play.

Q What is the Magician jinx with Lil' Monsta?
A Each night, the Magician chooses a Minion:
  if that Minion is in play, that Minion is forced to babysit Lil Monsta.
  Effectively the Magician is deciding who the good team must execute to win the game!

  The optional variant of the jinx is that in the case of picking an out of play Minion the Magician becomes the babysitter,
  and should they die while babysitting, evil wins.

Q What is the Lil' Monsta jinx with the Organ Grinder?
A Votes for the Organ Grinder count if the Organ Grinder is babysitting Lil' Monsta.

Q What is the Poppy Grower jinx with Lil' Monsta?
A While the Poppy Grower is in play, Minions do not wake together.
  Instead they are woken one by one, until one of them chooses to take the Lil' Monsta token;
  there is no passing the baby to a good player.
  If every Minion keeps saying no, the ST picks one of them to hold the baby.

Q Does the Preacher affect Lil' Monsta when babysat by a Minion?
A The Preacher stops the Minion's ability but not LM's ability to kill and move around.

Q Can the Psychopath holding Lil' Monsta kill the Soldier?
--BEST_GUESS
A The consensus is no.

Q Does the Grandmother die if their grandchild dies in the day to the Psychopath babysitting Lil' Monsta?
A Yes.

Q Does the Recluse registering as a Minion and waking with the regular Minions to decide who babysits LM register to the Mathematician?
A Yes.

Q If the good Saint is holding Lil' Monsta and is executed, which team wins?
A Good, because in a tie good wins.

Q Can the Scarlet Woman holding Lil' Monsta Barber swap with the previous Minion that was holding Lil' Monsta?
A Yes.

Q Is the Scarlet Woman's ability "reusable" in a Lil' Monsta game?
--BEST_GUESS
A The concensus is yes, the SW ability can trigger multiple times.

Q What happens when the Soldier says the word when the Mezepheles is babysitting Lil' Monsta?
A The Soldier does not become evil and the Mez ability is used up.

  The Soldier is safe from all of the Demon's harmful effects, which includes turning evil,
  and any babysitter is considered to be the Demon for all abilities that check for the Demon.

Q If the Snake Charmer picks the Lil' Monsta's babysitter, what happens?
A They swap characters and alignment.  Do they swap babysitter?  Unknown, but does it matter?
  Whether the SC now holds LM is irrelevant since the SC picks before the LM does,
  so the Minions, which might include the former SC, will wake up after the swap to pick the next babysitter anyhow.

Q Are there Demon bluffs in a Lil' Monsta game?
A No.

  A way around this is to have the Snitch in the game in which case every Minion including the babysitter will learn three out of play characters.
  If there is also a Marionette in the game the babysitter would learn six out of play characters due to the Mario's jinx with the Snitch.

Q Can Monk protected player or the Soldier hold Lil' Monsta?
A Yes, holding the Demon is not considered to be a harmful effect.

Q Could the Spy babysitting the Lil' Monsta misregister as non-Demon?
--BEST_GUESS
A No.

  The Spy could misregister as a Townsfolk or an Outsider but they would also simultaneously register as 'the Demon',
  so any abilities that ask "is this the Demon?" should still yield a yes.

  If a Spy babysitter were allowed to be unfindable then it would be pretty rough on the good team.

Q Can the Lil' Monsta add the Summoner to the game?
A No, as there is a Demon in play.

Q What happens when the Summoner summons Lil' Monsta?
A RAW the chosen player
  * becomes an evil player holding Lil Monsta;
  * is not involved in choosing the babysitter on future nights, assuming the Summoner did not pick a starting Minion, but they are still an excellent babysitter.

  However some STs may rule it as that the chosen player does in fact become a Minion of the Summoner/STs choice,
  which would be consistent with the Summoner's purpose being to make a full, regular evil team.
  The ST should be clear with their players that this is how they would run this interaction.

Q What is the Vizier jinx with Lil' Monsta?
A If the Vizier is babysitting then they can die by execution.

Q Minions choose the Demon in Lil' Monsta but who chooses the kill?
A The ST.

Q Can any player babysit Lil' Monsta? / Can a Traveller babysit Lil' Monsta? / Can non-Minions babysit Lil' Monsta?
A Yes.  LM can be given to any player, as long as the majority of the Minions agree.
  The player is then informed that they are babysitting, with the 'you are' info token followed by the Lil' Monsta character token.

  Giving the LM to a good player will usually result in that player announcing such so is not always a good idea.
  Giving the LM to a Traveller who leaves will cause the game to end.

Q Can the ST sink a kill in a Lil' Monsta game? / In a Lil' Monsta game can there be no deaths at night, perhaps simulating a Mastermind day?
A Yes. The ST is free to target any player with the LM ability, including:
  * dead players,
  * protected players that cannot die (Innkeeper / Monk / Soldier / ...),
  * evil players.

Q Is a good player holding Lil' Monsta informed that they are the babysitter?
A Yes, they get woken and told that they are holding Lil' Monsta and, as applicable, learn the King, the Lunatic and the Marionette.
  Note that if the Marionette holds LM they do not learn that they are the Marionette, as per the jinx.

Q If the babysitter dies in a Lil' Monsta game that continues (Evil Twin / Mastermind), do the Minions get to choose a new babysitter?
A No, if the babysitter dies so does Lil' Monsta, so the ability cannot continue.

Q Who wakes to decide who babysits Lil' Monsta?
A Only Minions, regardless of living status and alignment, except for the Marionette.

  Explicitly not woken:
  * the Marionette, although a Minion, as per the jinx;
  * evil Townsfolk, Outsiders and Travellers;
  * the Alchemist because, although they have a Minion ability, they are not a Minion.

  Dead Minions still wake since it is Lil' Monsta's ability causing them to wake, not a Minion's own ability.

  A good Minion waking up to decide on the babysitter will likely learn the entire evil team.
  If this is undesirable, it could be prevented with a house rule that only evil Minions wake.

Q Does the Lil' Monsta's ability, 'a player dies each night', mean that there can only be one death at night?
A No, there can be extra kills due to other abilities on top of Lil' Monsta's kill.

Q Can Lil' Monsta multi-kill? 
A No; their ability is _one_ player dies each night.
  Other abilities in play could cause more deaths.

Q What does an evil Traveller learn in a Lil' Monsta game?
A Whoever is currently babysitting.
  If they travel in at the start of the game, before the Minions have woken,
  then RAW they see no one but the ST could have them learn after the babysitter has been decided.

Q What do character checkers (Dreamer / Ravenkeeper / Undertaker / ...) see the Minion holding Lil' Monsta as?
A As their Minion character.  No player is ever Lil' Monsta so no player can be seen as LM by any character checking abilities.

Q In a Teensyville Lil' Monsta game, do the Minions learn each other?
A Yes.

  In five and six player games, the Minion and Demon info steps do not happen, but character abilities still work as normal.
  So the Lil' Monsta ability still allows the evil team to learn each other,
  at the point that they wake up together to choose who babysits.

Q Can a dead player babysit Lil' Monsta?
A They can, but then the Demon would be dead almost certainly ending the game.

Q How is Lil' Monsta affected by drunkenness and poisoning?
--BEST_GUESS
A The LM is unaffected, whereas the babysitter is,
  meaning that LM can still kill and move at night even though their babysitter's ability works abnormally.

  No player is ever LM and abilities that cause drunkenness or poisoning always target the player,
  even those abilities that target players via their character token.

  Note that some STs will run this interaction differently which is up to the ST to clarify.
  If LM is allowed to become drunk or poisoned then likely:
  * the Minions do not wake to choose who holds LM; the ST does not wake the Minions to deceive them that they are working normally as no player is LM.
  * no player dies due to LM.
  * LM cannot move; whoever was holding LM before the drunkenness / poisoning occurred will keeping holding LM.
  * although LM is drunk, the player holding LM is not drunk so can still use their ability.


========
=Lleech=
========
Q What happens if the Lleech host is the Good Twin? 
A In order for good to win, the Evil Twin must be killed first and then the Good Twin.

  Evil always wins if the Good Twin is ever executed while the Evil Twin is alive.
  So while executing the Good Twin does kill the Lleech, the living Evil Twin's wincon would trigger, giving evil the win.

Q What happens if the Exorcist chooses the Lleech?
A The Lleech does not wake but their host remains poisoned and must die in order for the Lleech to die.

Q Does the Fortune Teller get a 'yes' on the Lleech or their host?
A The Lleech.

Q What happens if the Lleech host is the Heretic?
A As per the jinx, the Heretic remains poisoned when the Lleech dies so good can win by executing the Heretic.

Q If the Lleech poisons his Marionette/Lunatic on N1, does he still learn that that player is his Marionette/Lunatic?
A Yes, he will have already learned that player before he picked his host.

Q If the Lycanthrope attacks and kills the Lleech's good host, does the Lleech die despite the Lycanthrope's no other player can die ability?
A The Lleech should probably die too.  Lleech and Lycanthrope may be a problematic pair.

Q Can the Mayor N1 bounce the Lleech to avoid being the host?
A No, they become the host.  They are therefore poisoned and without an ability, unable to win in final 3 or bounce kills at night.

Q Does the Lleech host protected by the Monk become healthy? 
A For that night, yes.

Q If the Monk protects the Lleech, is the Lleech prevented from dying with their host tonight?
A Yes, but as per the drunk or poisoned Lleech host dying rule the Lleech should probably die despite the protection.

Q What happens if a new Lleech is created (Barber / Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / Scarlet Woman / ...)
  and they select as their host the Monk protected player?
A They still become the host, but for that night they are unaffected by the Lleech poison.

Q If the Lleech is in play and the Pit-Hag makes a second Demon, what happens?
A Deaths are arbitrary,
  so the ST should pick whichever option makes the most sense for that particular game at that particular moment:
  * kill the Lleech, which means the host must also die (poisoned but then become healthy);
  * kill the newly created Demon instead.
  
  Note that even though deaths are arbitrary it is not legal to kill the Lleech and leave the host alive.

Q Does resurrecting the Lleech host (Professor) also resurrect the Lleech?
A No.

Q In a final five that includes the Lleech, their host and the Scarlet Woman, the host is executed and dies, so the Lleech dies. Does the SW become the Lleech?
A RAW the SW becomes the Lleech, chooses their host, then kills that night, resulting in a loss for the good team.
  Some STs house rule this interaction to avoid situations where good cannot win, such as not allowing the SW to kill the same night that they become the new Lleech.
  
  There is a similar conflict between the Shabaloth and the SW.

Q What is the Slayer jinx with the Lleech?
A If the Slayer slays the Lleech's host, the host dies, and the Lleech dies too if they are sober and healthy.

  Typically, if the Slayer shoots the Demon they die, but the Lleech cannot die normally, 
  so the jinx allows the Slayer to still have a way of killing the Demon.

Q Can the Soldier be the Lleech host?
A Yes, but the Soldier remains healthy.

  The Soldier is safe from the all the harmful effects of the Demon,
  with dying, being poisoned, and turning evil all examples of harmful effects.
  Being the Lleech host is not considered a harmful effect, because when the host dies so does the Demon,
  and that benefits the good team.
  So if picked by the Lleech, the Soldier is not poisoned but still becomes their host.

  Additionally the Mathematician is pinged every night as the "poisoned for the rest of the game" part of the Lleech's ability is continuously failing.

Q Does the Lleech's host die poisoned, should the game continue for some reason (Evil Twin / Mastermind / Scarlet Woman / ...)?
A Yes.

  This would matter for abilities that trigger on death (Klutz / Ravenkeeper / Sage / Sweetheart / ...).

Q Does the Lleech host register as evil?
A Only if they are already evil, because they are a Minion or where turned evil (Bounty Hunter / Cult Leader / Goon / ...).
  If the host is good, then they will register as good to alignment checkers.

Q Can the Lleech host be a Traveller?
A Yes, unless the ST rules otherwise, but Travellers rarely make good hosts: if the Traveller host is exiled or they leave, then they die, so the Lleech dies too.
  Also Traveller abilities tend to be very public so if they are not working correctly then it is very simple for the town to test this and exile them.

Q What is the effect of poisoning and drunkenness on the Lleech?
A If the Lleech is drunk or poisoned:
  # they die when executed;
  # they do not die when the host dies.

  Once the Lleech becomes sober and healthy they die if their host is dead.

Q Can the Lleech self-host?
A Yes.  They are self-poisoned for the rest of the game meaning they cannot kill at night and can die.

Q If the Lleech becomes a different Demon (Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / ...), does the Lleech host become healthy?
A Yes.

Q If the Lleech makes it to final three, is that an instant evil win? Since if the host is executed, that would create a final two before the Lleech dies.
A If the Lleech host is executed in final three, the good team wins, as the Lleech and the host die simultaneously.
  This is a rare example of simultaneous death in Clocktower.

Q What happens when a new Lleech is made (Barber / Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / Scarlet Woman / Snake Charmer / Summoner / ...)?
A A new host is chosen as soon as possible, who could have been a host to a previous Lleech.
  The new Demon, unless created as a result of previous Demon killing the Barber, follows this up with a kill. 

Q If the Lleech is drunk or poisoned on their first night do they still pick a host?
A Yes, the only difference is that their host is not poisoned while the Lleech is drunk / poisoned.

  When the Lleech becomes sober and healthy that host still needs to be dead in order for the Lleech to die;
  the Lleech cannot die while drunk or poisoned but,
  if the host dies meanwhile,
  the Lleech does too the moment that they are sober and healthy.

Q If the sober and healthy Lleech is executed, they do not die, but what can they pretend was the reason that they did not die?
A There are many reasons why a player could be executed and not die so:
  * they could claim to have been saved by their unspent Fool ability,
  * they were saved by the Pacifist,
  * they neighbour the Tea Lady and can only be a good player,
  * they could claim to be the sober Sailor and that the player they chose last night must currently be drunk,
  * the Devil's Advocate is trolling them.

Q Who does the Lleech have to kill at night when it is just themself, their good player host and two Minions left alive?
A They should kill one of their Minions.

  If they killed the only good player left in the game, their host, they would also die, resulting in a good win.
  By killing off one of their Minions, they keep the game going into a final three and hope that their host does not nominate themself.

Q Does the Monk protected Lleech who attacks their host become immortal?
A RAW, yes.

  Being Monk protected they are safe from their own harmful effects,
  so their ability which have killed themself when their host dies is blocked.


================
=Lord of Typhon=
================
Q Does the Alsaahir have to guess the extra Minion added by the Lord of Typhon?
A Yes.

Q Is the setup illegal if the Outsider added by the Balloonist is removed by the Lord of Typhon?
A No, since the Lord of Typhon allows for any number of Outsiders to be in play.

Q What effect does the Baron have in a Lord of Typhon game?
A The Baron's [+2 Outsiders] setup effect still happens,
  even though the Lord of Typhon's [-? to +? Outsiders] means any number of Outsiders may be in play.
  With this understood it would be unfair on the Baron if all of the Outsiders they would have added are taken away,
  so perhaps the ST could place all of the Outsiders into the bag,
  or just not have the Baron in play if they see many or all of the Outsiders becoming Minions.

Q In a Lord of Typhon game, the Choirboy is left without their King who has become a Minion.
  Is the setup now invalid?
A No.
  Although it feels bad for the Choirboy, it is okay for the Lord of Typhon to remove the King.

Q What effect does the Magician have in a Lord of Typhon game?
A The Minions see the Magician as the Demon, and the Demon sees the Magician as a Minion. 
  In a Lord of Typhon game, if the Magician is not next to the line of evil characters, this may make the Magician obvious to the evil team.
  However, this can be useful: if the Magician senses that the evil team is coordinated, they will realize it is a Lord of Typhon game which helps with world-building.

Q How does the Poppy Grower work in a Lord of Typhon game?
A The Demon does not learn the Minions,
  but knows that at least both of their neighbours evil, likely Minions.

Q Can the Recluse affect the line of evil players in a Lord of Typhon game?
A No.

  The intent of misregistration abilities is that they do not begin until after setup. 
  Having the Spy or Recluse misregister at setup, to be out of or in the line respectively, is not fun.
  So if the Recluse neighbours the LoT then they become an evil Minion as usual.

Q Do the Snake Charmer's neighbours become evil Minions after the Lord of Typhon is successfully charmed?
A No.

  The Demon's neighbours becoming evil Minions only happens N1.
  The only changes are the Snake Charmer and the Demon players swap characters, with the new SC being self-poisoned.

Q Can the Soldier neighbouring the Lord of Typhon become an evil Minion?
A Yes.

  Abilities, unless they say otherwise, are not active during setup,
  so the Soldier's ability to be safe from the Demon has no effect.

Q Can the Summoner summon the Lord of Typhon?
A Yes, but the chosen player must neighbour a Minion as per the jinx.
  The new Demons' other neighbour then becomes an out of play evil Minion.

Q Do the Minions in a Lord of Typhon game effectively receive bluffs?
A Yes, since they know that the character that they initially received is now out of play.

Q In a Lord of Typhon game with five evil players does the Demon have to sit in the exact centre of the line?
A No.

  The only restriction is that all evils must sit in a line and the Demon's neighbours are evil,
  so the Demon is not allowed to be on the end of the line,
  but can be anywhere within the line.

Q Do the [setup effects] still happen when the corresponding character is removed by the Lord of Typhon?
A Yes.

  The Huntsman still adds the Damsel, the Choirboy still adds the King and the Balloonist still might have added an Outsider,
  even if the added character or the character doing the adding later becomes a Minion.

Q When does the Lord of Typhon act N1?
A First, before even Travellers.

  All of the relevant neighbours are swapped to Minions before they have a chance to use any abilities.


=========
=Lunatic=
=========
Q If the Courtier drinks with the Lunatic, does the Lunatic still believe that they are the Demon?
A Yes. The Lunatic will have pulled their Demon token out of the bag and learned fake info before the Courtier would be able to drink with them.

  While the Lunatic is drunk (by Courtier or otherwise)
  the ST treats them like the Demon that they think they are, waking them up to get their choices,
  but the actual Demon is not informed of their picks.

Q If the Courtier drinks with the Lunatic on day one, would the Demon learn of the Lunatic?
A Yes.
  N1 both the Lunatic waking to learn their fake information and the Demon waking to learn their real information happens before the Courtier acts.

  However, if a droisoned player is turned into the Lunatic, the Demon would not learn about them until the Lunatic is sober and healthy.
  When the new Lunatic does become sober and healthy the Demon would be informed as soon as possible.

Q Does the exorcised Demon still learn who the Lunatic picked?
A Yes.

  The Lunatic acts before the Exorcist, but even if it was not,
  the Demon still wakes to other characters' abilities, just not their own.

Q What does the Demon learn if the Lunatic Fang Gu picks an Outsider?
A The Demon learns who the Lunatic chose.
  The Lunatic has no interaction with Outsiders just because they saw the Fang Gu token.

-----combine
---- The Demon always acts after the Lunatic so they are aware of the Lunatic's choice(s) before they make their own.
Q If the Lunatic thinks that they are the Fang Gu and the Fang Gu jumps to them, what are they told?
A They are woken and told that they are the Fang Gu and are evil.

  Their character and alignment changed, and they no longer have the Lunatic ability that allows the ST to lie about it.

Q If the Lunatic-Fang Gu is Fang Gu-jumped, is she told that she is now evil?
A The ST informs the new Demon of their character and alignment as it changed and they no longer have the Lunatic ability.

Q If the Fang Gu jumps into the Lunatic who sees himself as the Fang Gu, does the ST still tell the Lunatic again that he is the Fang Gu?
A Yes. Players learn when their character and alignment have changed, 
  and the Lunatic will be a real Fang Gu meaning they no longer any character ability that allows some deception with that anymore. 
  They are actually changing character and alignment even though it is to what they may have already thought.

  So the ST would wake them up and inform tell them "You are the Fang Gu, you are evil." 
----

Q Can the ST deceive the Lunatic that they have been Fang Gu jumped to?
A Yes.

  The ST is allowed to wake up the Lunatic and tell that they are now the evil Fang Gu.
  Perhaps they might do this if the Lunatic has figured out who they are.

Q What happens when the Lunatic picks the Goon?
A If the Lunatic is the first to pick the Goon at night then:
  * the Goon is flipped / stays good;
  * the Lunatic is drunk, so the ST deceives them that their ability, that they believe they are the Demon, is still working;
  * the Demon is not informed of the Lunatic's picks that night.

  When a player is drunk or poisoned, they are deceived into believing that their ability is working normally.
  The first part of the Lunatic's ability is a "you think" ability, which means deceiving the player about what they are.  
  So a drunk or poisoned Lunatic is deceived into believing that their ability is working normally ... which is to believe that they are some other character.
  So nothing has changed.
  
  However, drunkenness or poisoning does shut down the other mechanical part of their ability,
  which is to inform the Demon of their picks.

Q If the Hatter dies, can the Lunatic be given the choice to change characters?
A Yes, this does not even need the actual Hatter to die.

Q Does the Demon learn who the Lunatic Lleech chose as their host?
A The Demon learns who their Lunatic picks on N1 but does not learn what Demon they believe they are,
  so from the Demon's perspective they could be learning who the Lunatic Pukka picked to poison.

Q The Lleech picks the Lunatic N1.  Does the Lleech learn who the Lunatic picks at night?
A No, the Lunatic is poisoned.

Q If the Lunatic thinks that they are the Lleech, does the Demon learn who they picked N1?
A Yes.
  The Lunatic ability reads "and who you choose at night", so the Demon learns who they picked. 
  But the Demon does not learn why they picked,
  so if the Pukka and the Lleech are on the script, then the Demon would not know which token the Lunatic saw, which might cause issues on N2 when deciding who to kill.

Q Could the Lunatic be falsely told that a Marionette was created mid game?
A Yes.

  Anything that the real Demon could learn in a regular game, whether it happens or not in this game, can be told to the Lunatic to aid with their deception.

Q Does the Lunatic learn that they are evil if they are turned by the Mezepheles?
A All players learn if they change alignment, even the Lunatic.

Q Does the Demon learn what character the Lunatic Ojo targeted?
A No, they are shown the player who the Lunatic Ojo functionally targeted, i.e. the player with that character.

Q What is the Demon shown when the Lunatic Ojo picks an out of play character?
A Nothing.

  The Lunatic says the Demon learns who they picked,
  and the Ojo says picking an out of play character is the ST's choice not the player's, so the Lunatic Ojo did not pick anyone.

Q If the Pit-Hag turns the Lunatic into another character, they are told their new character, but are they told that they are in fact good?
A No, their character changed, but not their alignment, and players should only be informed of their alignment when it changes.

---------------------combine
Q What is the Lunatic told if the Pit-Hag turns her into the Demon she already believed herself to be?
A The new Demon is reinformed of her character, as it changed and she no longer has the Lunatic ability.

Q If the Pit-Hag turns the Lunatic into a Demon, will the Lunatic learn, along with their new character, that they are actually good?
A No, they only have to be told their new character.

  RAW players only learn when their alignment changes.
  The ex Lunatic does not learn their alignment because their alignment has not changed;
  they were good before the character change and are still good.
  They may still believe that they are evil or they maybe utterly confused, especially if they were turned into the Demon that they already believed themself to be!

  If a player were to enquire about their alignment, in this scenario or otherwise, they should be told something like "your alignment has not changed".
  An exception can be made for an inexperienced player, where it might be helpful for the ST to tell them their alignment.
  With this understood, some STs still choose to always tell a player their alignment when they are turned from/to a Demon/Minion.

  There are some related scenarios to consider:
  * the Lunatic actually turned evil via a Fang Gu jump must be informed that they are now the evil Fang Gu;
  * the evil Marionette, who believes themself to be a good Townsfolk,
  will learn that they are the Imp, after the previous Imp self-kills, but are told nothing about their alignment as it has not changed.
------------------------

Q If the Pit-Hag turns a player into the Lunatic, does the ST tell that player that they are evil?
A No.  The Lunatic's ability is "You think you are a Demon, but you are not. The Demon knows who you are and who you choose at night.".
  With the Pit-Hag on the script it is very believable someone could be made a good Demon,
  and that is all that is required of the Lunatic, to believe they are a Demon of some kind.

Q The Pit-Hag changes a player into the Lunatic. Would it be valid to first wake them, tell them they are an Outsider of some type, 
  put them to sleep and pretend to continue with the night order, then wake them telling them they were Fang Gu jumped?
A No, their ability does not make them think that they are an Outsider.

Q A good player is transformed into the Lunatic by the Pit-Hag.
  What are they told?
  They ask what their alignment is.
  Should the ST clarify that they are still good?
A They are told that they are now a Demon from the script.
  They do not learn any Minion info, as that only happens N1,
  but they could learn their Minions at a later time to simulate the Poppy Grower dying.
  They can learn fake Lunatic / King info.

  They are not told anything about their alignment
  since RAW players only learn their alignment after it changes,
  which also means that when the Lunatic, or the Marionette, changes character they do not learn their true alignment as it never changed.
  
  Should the player enquire what their alignment is then the ST should simply inform that is has not changed.
  An exception might be made for an inexperienced player by clarifying that they are still good,
  while experienced players should be left to puzzle it out.

  Note that the Lunatic's ability is that they believe that they are the Demon, not that they are evil,
  but some STs will lie to the Lunatic that they are evil,
  reasoning that this will help with the deception.

Q What does the Demon learn if their Lunatic Po charges / Lunatic Zombuul does not wake?
A Nothing.

  The Demon learns who the Lunatic chooses, and if they do not choose anyone for whatever reason then they learn nothing.

Q Can the Lunatic be told that they have been snake charmed?
A No, because the Lunatic's ability is that they think that they _are_ the Demon, not that they _were_ the Demon.
  If they are told that they are the good Snake Charmer then they are no longer being deceived that they are the Demon.

Q What does the Demon learn when the Lunatic thinks that they are the Yaggababble?
A Just who the Lunatic is.

  The Demon learns who the Lunatic picks, and if the Lunatic does not or cannot pick anyone, the Demon learns nothing.
  The Lunatic Yaggababble is never prompted to make any choices after they say their non-functional phrase.

Q Does the Lunatic who believes that they are the Zombuul still wake after they die?
A No.

  The Lunatic does not have the Zombuul ability that they think they have,
  so they have no ability that would wake them after they die.
  However, if the ST wants to rule otherwise they are free to do so, as long as they clarify with their players how they run this interaction.

Q Can the Lunatic be told that another player is the Lunatic?
A Yes, but this is discouraged since it can lead to the ST controlling the kills:
  * the ST chooses a kill for the fake Lunatic and informs the Lunatic, 
  * the Lunatic attacks the fake Lunatic's target to keep up the lie,
  * the Demon attacks the same target to keep up the lie.

  The ST can do this if their group is cool with the idea
  or perhaps to ensure seeing the Lunatic token does not confirm someone as the Demon.

  It is possible to simulate the Lunatic to the Lunatic without dictating the kills by having the actual Demon be the Pukka,
  and the Lunatic believe that they are a Demon that does not make a N1 choice, such as the Po.
  The ST places both Demon tokens in the bag, remembering that the Pukka is the real Demon, and showing each to the other as their Lunatic.
  Since the Pukka kills out of sync, who they poison each night can be shown to the Lunatic as the fake Lunatic pick for the following night.
  Then when the Lunatic picks the same player to kill, the timing of the pick's death to the Pukka will sync with the Lunatic's expectations.
  The Demon never knows what Demon their Lunatic believes themself to be,
  so the Lunatic will not be aware that their fake Lunatic is the Pukka.

----reword publicly claiming bit
-----combine with "Can the Lunatic learn a fake Mario?"
Q Can the ST fake the Poppy Grower is in play and not show fake Minions to the Lunatic?
A Yes.

  The ST is already lying to the player that they are the Demon,
  so they can lie about them being affected by the Poppy Grower, even when they are not in the game.

  Anything on the script that could happen or be told to the Demon can be simulated for the Lunatic:
  * fake Magician, by showing an extra "Minion"
  * fake King,
  * fake Marionette,
  * fake Exorcist after a fake exorcism, ...

  While the ST can give the Lunatic fake info, should is another matter entirely.
  The ST is also free to give the Lunatic correct info when these characters are really in play,
  which could keep the deception up for longer as it lines up with what these characters are publicly claiming,
  ultimately benefiting the evil team.

Q Does a drunk or poisoned Lunatic's pick(s) get shown to the Demon?
A No. The Lunatic is still deceived into thinking their ability is working, so they are woken to choose if they normally would be,
  but the Demon will not learn their choices.

Q Does the Lunatic have to think they are an _evil_ Demon?
A No, if it is believable that there is a troll Pit-Hag in the game,
  and someone becomes the Lunatic on a later night, a good Demon is reasonable.
  However, the starting Lunatic needs to think they are the evil Demon character because there is almost no way anything else could happen.
  It would need a skilled ST to convince the Lunatic that an Amnesiac ability put a good Demon in the bag.

Q Does the Demon learn the Lunatic in Teensyville?
A Yes, that is a function of the Lunatic ability,
  and all character abilities function normally in a game with five or six players.

Q If the Lunatic goes up to their fake Minions who then tell her that they are not Minions,
  she will figure out pretty quickly that she is the Lunatic, right?
A Correct.
  The Lunatic is not meant to be a lasting deception, but more of a spend the early game playing for evil, realise what they are, then making it up to the good team.
  
  The Lunatic is allowed to see the actual Minions, who may figure out why a non-Demon is claiming to be the Demon to them.
  Minions can even to lie to their Demon: the Demon who is convinced that they are the Lunatic will do a much better job of claiming to be the Lunatic if they genuinely believe it.

Q Is the Lunatic informed if they turn evil?
A Yes.

  If the Lunatic turns evil, for example by saying the Mezepheles word, then they are woken and told their new alignment.


=============
=Lycanthrope=
=============
Q Does executing the player registering as evil due to the Lycanthrope poison the Cannibal?
A Yes.

Q Could the player registering as evil due to the Lycanthrope turn the Cult Leader / Goon evil?
A Yes.

Q If the Lycanthrope is drunk or poisoned, does none of their ability take effect?
A Correct, they cannot kill and other deaths are not prevented.

Q If the Lycanthrope self-kills, are they the only death this night?
A No, the dead Lycanthrope has no ability so they are unable to prevent other deaths tonight.

Q What happens when the Lycanthrope successfully kills a good player in an Al-Hadikhia game?
A No one can die to the Al-Hadikhia regardless of their live/die choices but players can still be resurrected.

Q If the Lycanthrope kills a good player and the Godfather chooses to use their ability, does the Godfather ability get wasted?
A The Godfather does not choose when they use it,
  but the Godfather kill also does not go through when the Lycan picks a good player.
  This is unlike the Assassin, which kills despite the Lycan protection.

Q What happens when the Pit-Hag creates a new Demon, meaning an arbitrary deaths night, and the Lycanthrope then targets a good player?
A Since the Pit-Hag acts first in the night order deaths are completely arbitrary, meaning the ST has two options:
  # Allow the Lycan to kill, preventing all other deaths tonight.
  # Use the Pit-Hag ability to block the Lycan's kill, meaning any deaths tonight are due to the Pit-Hag.  These deaths can include the Lycan's target.

Q If the Lycanthrope attacks a good player who does not die (sober Soldier / Tea Lady protection / Innkeeper protection / unspent Fool / ...)
  is it a no death night?
A No, other players can still die tonight due to other characters' abilities.
  Additionally, as the Lycan's ability acted abnormally, the Mathematician is upticked.

  The killing a good player and the no one else can die are directly linked;
  if the first does not happen then the second does not activate.

Q If the Lycanthrope attacks the Mayor who bounces the kill, what happens?
A The ST has a choice of who to bounce the kill to:
  * a good player who dies, meaning no further deaths that night;
  * a good player who cannot die, meaning other kills can happen that night,
  * an evil player, who cannot die since the source of the attack is still considered to be the Lycan, so other deaths can happen tonight.

Q Can the Lycanthrope kill the Lleech host, ending the game?
A Yes, assuming the Lleech chose a good player as their host (the Lleech does occasionally pick Minions).

Q What is the Gambler jinx with the Lycanthrope?
A If the Gambler gambles someone incorrectly and dies while there is an alive Lycan ability,
  they are the only player who can die that night, just like if the Lycan chose them.
  
  * the alignment of the Lycan's pick is irrelevant
  * no other deaths due to other abilities go through, which includes the Lycan's and the Demon's picks
  * whether the Lycan is drunk or poisoned is RAW irrelevant

Q If the Lycanthrope kills a good player, and the Demon picks the Lycanthrope, does only the good player die?
A Yes.

Q If the Lycanthrope picks the Tinker, could the Tinker die to their own ability rather than the Lycan's, meaning the Lycan protection is not in effect?
A No.  The Lycan must choose an alive player, so either the Lycan kills the Tinker meaning there are no more deaths tonight, 
  or the Tinker is already dead to their own ability and an invalid choice for the Lycan who must be prompted to choose again.


==========
=Magician=
==========
Q Does a N1 Barista 1 have an effect on the Demon or a Minion when there is a Magician in play?
A Yes, that player would not be shown the Magician.
  A Barista 1 Evil Twin paired with the Magician would see them as the Magician instead of the Demon, and cause a +1 to the Mathematician.

Q What impact on the game would a mid game created Magician or Poppy Grower (Barber / Damsel / Pit-Hag / ...) have?
A Almost certainly none.  The Damsel gaining such an ability would not have any fun.

Q Can the Evil Twin be twinned with the Magician?
A Yes.  The Evil Twin would see the Demon token as the Magician's character... which would immediately expose the Magician.

Q Can the Imp starpass to the Magician?
A No.
  The Imp player might believe that the Magician is a Minion, but their ability does not, so an actual Minion will become the new Demon.

Q How is the Magician run in a Legion game?
A The Magician's vote counts as a good vote and causes an execution to pass if sufficient. 

  Each Legion must be woken up individually to be told their other Demon players in order to maintain the Magician illusion,
  so any time the Magician is on the script with Legion,
  all Legion players should wake separately to see their fellow "Legion" players so that Legion players cannot tell if the Magician is in play or not.

Q If the Mastermind or the Scarlet Woman thinks that the Magician is the Demon, does their ability trigger when the Magician is executed?
A No.

  While the Mastermind/SW player will think the Magician is the Demon,
  their ability does not register the Magician as the Demon,
  so it is not triggered on the Magician's execution.

Q Can the Marionette be sat next to the Magician rather than the Demon?
A No.

  The Minions only think the Magician is the Demon, the Magician does not register as the Demon.
  However, a Magician sat next to the Demon can be shown to the Demon as the Marionette.

Q If the Magician neighbours the No Dashii, do they affect the Demon / Minion info stages?
A No, they are poisoned.

Q If the Philosopher drunks the Magician N1, does the actual Magician's ability happen when the Philo dies?
  Does Demon and Minion info happen again midway through the game?
A No, because by that time the deception has already failed. 
  Similarly, a Pit-Hag creating a Magician mid game would not cause the Minions and Demon to redo their info steps.

Q How does the Magician work in a Poppy Grower game?
A If the Magician is alive when the Poppy Grower dies then it affects the Minion/Demon info step exactly how it would have done N1.

Q If the Magician ability comes into play after N1, do Demons and Minions learn information on the player with the Magician ability? 
A In a Poppy Grower game they might, otherwise no.

  The Minions and the Demon learn of the Magician during the info phase which happens N1.
  So unless the Poppy Grower was in play from the start of the game and delayed the info phase until after the Magician's creation, 
  the evil team would not learn about the mid game Magician.

Q How does the Magician work when there the Spy or the Widow are in play?
A As per the jinx: 
  "When the Spy/Widow sees the Grimoire, the Demon and Magician's character tokens are removed."
  The ST also removes any relevant reminder tokens as well so that it is not obvious despite the lack of character token.

Q What is the Vizier jinx with the Magician?
A If the Vizier and Magician are both in play, the Demon does not learn the Minions.

Q Is the Magician's ability affected by the Vortox?
A No.

Q Do evil Townsfolk or Outsiders (Bounty Hunter / Mezepheles) or evil Travellers see the Magician?
A No, only Minions or Demons.

--------------------rewrite
Q Does the Demon immediately know who one of her Minions is if the Marionette and the Magician are in the same game? Can the Demon think the Magician is their Marionette?
A When the Magician and the Marionette are in the game together, the Demon will learn one Minion as her Marionette and the rest as non-Marionette Minions.
  She will immediately figure out the Magician is in the game,
  but if the Magician is sat next to the Demon or the Recluse then the Demon can be told the Magician is her Marionette,
  so learning the Marionette does not immediately mean the Demon knows for sure who one of her Minions is.

Q In a one Minion game, with the Marionette and the Magician in play, does the Demon just learn both players without learning one is the Marionette?
A They would learn both as Minions, and learn the Marionette as the Marionette,
  but they would not know for sure if their Marionette was actually the Magician and the other Minion was a non-Marionette.

  The Magician's ability is that the Demon thinks they are a Minion, and that can include a specific Minion if relevant
  similar to how the Lunatic can be lied to about different things in order to keep up the ruse that they are the Demon.

  If the Magician was in the game and the Minion was not the Marionette, 
  then, if the Magician was sat next to the Demon or the Recluse, the Demon could learn the Magician as the Marionette.
-----------------------------

Q What happens when an ability gainer (Cannibal / Philosopher / Pixie) gains the Magician's ability?
A Nothing.

  The Magician only has an impact on N1, during the Minion info and Demon info steps.
  After N1 any new instance of the Magician's ability has no effect.


============
=Marionette=
============
Q If the Marionette Artist asks if they are the Marionette, can the ST answer 'yes'?
A Yes.

Q Could the Marionette believe that she is the Atheist?
A Yes, though it might require an alternate setup to make that happen.

Q What is the Balloonist jinx with the Marionette?
A If the Marionette thinks that they are the Balloonist, +1 Outsider was added.

Q If the Bounty Hunter is the Marionette, is a Townsfolk player still made evil?
A No.

Q What happens when the Cannibal eats the Marionette?
A The Cannibal is poisoned and is usually deceived that they have the ability the Marionette thought they had.

Q What does the Chef learn when the Marionette neighbours the Demon?
A They learn of a pair.

  The Chef learns of pairs of evil players and the Marionette, despite believing that they are good, registers as evil, their true alignment, to other abilities.

Q Can the Marionette Choirboy be woken up and told the Demon when there is no King in the game?
A Yes, but getting that setup is tricky as the Choirboy requires the King and you do not know at setup that they will be the Marionette.

Q What happens if the Courtier picks the Marionette?
A Nothing.

  N1 the Marionette ability of thinking they are good and neighbouring the Demon has already happened.
  On other nights the ST still deceives a drunk Marionette that their ability is working, that is they think that they are a good character.

Q Can the Marionette Damsel be woken up and told that they became a Townsfolk when there is no Huntsman in the game?
A Yes.

Q What happens if a player chooses the Marionette with the Hatter ability?
A The ST informs that player that they are a good character and tells the Demon who their Marionette is.

Q After the Hatter dies, is the Marionette woken and given a choice?
A Yes. This hard confirms to them that they are the Marionette, similar to if the Preacher picks them.

Q Who learns the Marionette in a Lil' Monsta game?
A Anyone, except the Marionette (jinx), who babysits LM learns the Marionette.

Q Who does the Marionette neighbour in a Lil' Monsta game?
A A Minion, as per the jinx.

Q Can the Lunatic be the Marionette?
A ST choice.

  The TPI consider 'yes, they can' and 'no, they cannot' to both be valid rulings, so the ST should pick their preference and inform their players which they run:
  # The Marionette cannot think they are the Lunatic as the Lunatic thinks they are evil,
    which contradicts the Marionette thinking they are good,
    so the Lunatic cannot be the Marionette.
  # The Marionette can think they are a good character that themself thinks is the Demon. 

  If the preference is 'no they cannot' and the Demon lands between the Lunatic and a Minion then, if there is no Recluse in the game, that would need a rerack.
  To prevent this from happening an alternative setup should be used,
  such as placing an extra Townsfolk token in the bag instead of the Lunatic,
  then after the tokens are distributed,
  deciding which of the Townsfolk players to make the Lunatic,
  informing that they are a Demon from the script
  and showing them the Townsfolk token that they received as one of their bluffs.

Q Does the Marionette ping the Mathematician every time they use the ability that they think they have?
A No; the Marionette's supposed good ability works abnormally due to their own ability, so does not register to the Mathematician.

Q Can the Marionette be shown a fake Nightwatchman ping?
A General consensus is no, because deceiving them about that is not part of the Marionette's "think" ability.
  
  Unlike for example deceiving the Lunatic that they were picked by the Exorcist, which is part of them thinking that they are the Demon.

Q Does the Preacher on N1 picking the Marionette block the Demon from learning about them?
A No.

  The Marionette ability happens before the Preacher picks on N1 so cannot stop the Marionette placement or prevent the Demon from knowing about the Marionette.
  The Marionette is woken as usual to be told that they have been preached.

Q What happens when the Preacher selects the Marionette?
A The Marionette is woken and learns the Preacher chose them.
  They are not explicitly told that they are evil or the Marionette, but will probably be able to figure it out.

  As they lose their ability that makes them "think they are a good character",
  the ST stops deceiving them: they are no longer woken if they previously believed that they had a Townsfolk ability that acted at night.

Q Can the Recluse next to the Demon be the actual Marionette?
A Yes.

Q What does the Demon learn if the Recluse misregisters to them as the Marionette?
A Nothing.

  Misregistering as another character does not grant that character's ability,
  so while the Recluse can misregister as the Marionette,
  they do not gain an ability that wakes the Demon to learn incorrect Mario info.

-----combine
Q Can the Marionette in setup be placed next to the Recluse, and not the Demon?
A Yes.

  It is legal to have the Mario sat next to the Recluse misregistering as the Demon.
  This registers to the Mathematician since the Mario's ability has acted abnormally.

Q Can the Marionette neighbour the Recluse registering as the Demon?
A Yes.
  It is still best to inform the actual Demon of the Marionette,
  not the Recluse,
  otherwise that would out a player who does not even know that they are evil to a good player.
  This also tells the Demon that one of the Marionette's neighbours is the Recluse.
----

Q The Sailor acts N1 before the Marionette,
  so could the Demon fail to learn the Mario made drunk by the Sailor?
A Yes, however the Demon would still learn the Marionette as their Minion,
  since the Demon info step happens before the Sailor wakes.
  With this understood, the ST would usually make the Sailor drunk in this situation,
  just as they usually would whenever the Sailor picks an evil player.

  If the Marionette is drunk or poisoned on a future night when a player becomes a Demon for the first time (Fang Gu / Imp / Snake Charmer / ...)
  then that player would not learn about the Mario until the Mario is sober and healthy.

Q Can the Marionette receive a fake Widow's call to help sell the illusion that they are good?
A Yes.

  Anything that can be done to a good player can be done to the Marionette to reinforce the lie that they are a good character.

Q What are the restrictions on who can be the Marionette?
A Anyone can be the Marionette except:
  * the Damsel, when the Huntsman is in play;
  * the King, when the Choirboy is in play. 

  The Marionette must neighbour the Demon, or the Recluse who is registering as the Demon.

Q If the Demon moves mid game (Snake Charmer / Barber / Pit-Hag / Fang Gu / Imp / Lil' Monsta / Matron / Hatter / ... ),
  does the Marionette stay where they are?
A Yes, the Marionette does not move with the Demon, as neighbouring the Demon is a setup ability that has no effect later in the game.

  The new Demon would, however, be told who the Marionette is.

Q Do the other Minions learn of the Marionette?
A No.

  During Minion info they are told one fewer Minion, from which they will deduce that the Marionette is in play.
  To find out who that is, they will need to talk to their Demon.

Q Does the Demon learn the Marionette in Teensyville games?
A Yes, that is a function of the Marionette ability, and all character abilities function normally in a game with five or six players.

  The Marionette is the only Minion the Demon will learn in a Teensyville, unless the Toymaker fabled is in play, as then the Demon and Minion info steps are skipped.

Q The restrictions on the Marionette at setup,
  namely that they are evil believing they are a good player and they are sat either next to the Demon or the Recluse registering as the Demon ... 
  do they apply mid game for the purposes of the Barber / Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / Plague Doctor ...?
A It depends on how the Marionette is created.

  If the Plague Doctor's dies
  then, as per the jinx,
  as long as an extra evil player has yet to be created this game
  a new Marionette is made that must be an alive neighbour to the Demon / misregistering Recluse and currently be a Townsfolk / Outsider.

  If the Engineer is responsible for the new Marionette then the ST can pick any of the existing Minions to swap.

  Otherwise there are no restrictions on the new Marionette who:
  * does not need to neighbour the Demon, or a player registering as the Demon
  * is allowed to be a good player

Q What happens when a new Marionette is created mid game (Barber / Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / ...)?
A The ST:
  * informs the Demon of the new Marionette;
  * does not tell the new Mario anything about their alignment as it has not changed.
  
  The player is not informed that they are the Marionette, instead the ST either shows the player:
  * the "you are" info token and any Townsfolk or Outsider token,
  * nothing, if they were previously were a Townsfolk or Outsider.
    
  Effectively the player is now like the Drunk and the ST will now treat the Marionette as the character that they saw.

Q The starting Marionette believes that they are a good character.
  But if they swap (Barber / Engineer / Imp / Pit-Hag / Summoner / ...) and so no longer have an ability that deceives them about their alignment,
  are they informed that they are evil?
A RAW no, as players are only notified of their alignment when it changes.
  So the ST only informs them of their new character.
  
  If they became a Demon and directly ask the ST what their alignment is,
  the ST can reply "you are evil" or "you have not been informed of an alignment change."
  For newer players who are confused it may be best to clarify that they are evil,
  whereas the second response could be given to more experienced players who know how the Marionette works. 

Q Does a Marionette Townsfolk receive misinformation?
A The Marionette is not actually a Townsfolk, and so is unaffected by the Vortox.
  The ST can treat them as if they were drunk or poisoned, but they are not.
  They can be given any information, good or bad,
  in order to deceive them in to thinking that they are the Townsfolk character that they saw.
  
Q How can the Marionette be allocated when after tokens are drawn both of the Demon's neighbours are Minions?
A Options are:
    # Change a player to a Minion,
    # seat the Marionette next to the Recluse if there is one,
    # scrap the Marionette from the game and instead change a good player into the remaining Minion (but remember to still respect character type counts),
    # rerack.

  One possible way to avoid this scenario:
  # When preparing the bag the ST places two Minion tokens and no Demon token.
  # Choose two adjacent players who drew good tokens to be the Demon and the Marionette.
  # Give the Demon the character that they drew as one of their bluffs, to avoid giving them a free fourth bluff
  
  Some players dislike this method as it amounts to the ST assigning characters rather than letting the players.

Q Can the Marionette think that she is an Outsider, effectively removing one Outsider from the game?
A Yes, this is legal.  In this scenario the Marionette has acted like a -1 Outsider modifier.

Q Can the Marionette be replaced with an Outsider instead of a Townsfolk
  if the ST uses an alternative setup to ensure that that Outsider ends up being the Mario?
A Yes.

  The end result is still the correct number of each character type.

Q If a dead player becomes the Marionette (Barber / Pit-Hag / ...) does the Demon still learn them?
A No, the dead Marionette has no ability.

Q Do character checkers (Dreamer / Gambler / Harlot / Juggler / Ravenkeeper/ Undertaker / ...) see the Marionette as the Marionette?
A Yes, as this is their true character.

Q In a base two Outsider game, can an additional Outsider be added with the intention of making them the Marionette?
A Yes, but an alternate setup should probably be used to ensure that an Outsider neighbours the Demon so can be made into the Marionette.

Q Can the Marionette skip over a Demon's neighbour if they are a Traveller?
A If the Traveller is there during setup then the Marionette cannot skip over which can potentially lead to illegal setups.
  Having the Traveller travel in just after setup solves this problem, and it is often done this way.

Q Can a Traveller be the Marionette?
A No.

  The Marionette must think that they are a good character, defined in the game to be a Townsfolk or an Outsider.

Q Can the Marionette believe that they are an evil Townsfolk or Outsider?
A Yes.


============
=Mastermind=
============
Q If the Demon is executed and the following day the Apprentice Mastermind is exiled, does good win?
A Yes.

Q On a Mastermind day after the Demon is killed, when either the Spy or the Recluse is executed, is the winner completely up to the ST?
A Mechanically, the ST can make either team lose if either a Spy or Recluse is executed via misregistration.
  But the recommendation is not to have any misregistering on a Mastermind day;
  killing the Recluse would be an evil win, and killing the Spy would be a good win.

  Fearmonger and Mastermind do not play well with the misregistration abilities
  because if the ST uses the misregistration abilities players will feel like the ST entirely decided which team won.

Q If the Demon is executed and dies in F3 with the Mastermind and one good player still alive, does the game continue into a F2 day?
A Yes.
  The Mastermind's ability is to "play for 1 more day", and character abilities override normal game rules.
  A F2 day with Mastermind and a "dead" Zombuul is also a typical situation so the players will need to figure out what happened.

Q If the Demon is killed by another way than execution (Gangster / Gunslinger / ...) the Mastermind cannot use its ability, right?
A Correct.

Q What happens in a game with the Mastermind when the Lleech's host is executed?
A The Lleech does not die, but they no longer have any ability; that night they do not kill.
  The next day, if a good player is executed evil wins.  Otherwise good wins.

Q On a Mastermind day, if the Politician was nominated and determined to have done enough to flip, would evil win or would good win?
  i.e. does the Politician alignment change happen after the Mastermind had resolved the game?
A The Politician flips after the game ends, so evil wins.

Q What happens if the Pukka poisons their Mastermind and is executed the following day?
A The concensus is the Mastermind does not trigger, so the game is likely over.

  The Mastermind must be sober and healthy in order for a Demon execution to trigger their ability.
  So in this scenario they would be poisoned at the time of the Pukka's execution
  and only become healthy after the point at which their ability would have triggered.

Q Does the Mastermind ability still trigger if they were previously killed by the Vigormortis?
A RAF they probably should but the current belief is that they do not.

Q Does the Mastermind trigger after the Zombuul dies for a second time?
A Yes. This is the only time the MM does trigger with the Zombuul, because of the "ending the game" in the Mastermind's ability text.

Q On a Mastermind day nobody is executed.  What happens?
A If no one is executed on a Mastermind day, the normal victory conditions kick back in,
  which usually means good wins.
  
  But the game can continue if for example:
  * another Demon enters play
  * the Evil Twin is still alive

Q If a new Demon is created or some other mechanic would allow the game to otherwise continue after a Mastermind day has triggered,
  does the Mastermind day continue?
A The Mastermind's ability is still in effect even though the game can now continue without it,
  so if no one is executed the game continues but if someone is executed that player's team loses,
  except that the evil team can prevent their loss with an Evil Team.

  An Evil Twin being brought into play would allow the evil team to win upon the execution of a good player on a Mastermind day,
  however if an evil player were executed or no execution occurred on said Mastermind day
  then the game would continue with the Evil Twin ability needing to be resolved.

Q If the Mastermind is drunk or poisoned when the Demon is killed, what happens?
A The game ends.

Q In final four the Demon is executed and a Mastermind day is triggered.
  That night another ability causes one of the last three living players to die.
  The next day just the Mastermind and one other player are alive.
  Does the game end?
A No, the game continues because of the Mastermind.
  The same would happend if the Demon has been executed in final three with no night death.
  This interaction is intended to simulate how the Zombuul is able to make a final two.


===============
=Mathematician=
===============
------------------reword, needs generalising
Q If the Al-Hadikhia chooses the Soldier, the sober Sailor, and the Tea Lady protected player, and they all choose death, would that register as a six for the Mathematician?
A It registers as a one.

  The Mathematician counts the number of abilities that work abnormally, not how many times they malfunctioned.

Q Does the Assassin bypassing another character's protection (Fool / Innkeeper / Lycanthrope / Monk / Sailor / Tea Lady / ...) give a +1 to the Mathematician?
A Yes, the Assassin's ability is causing another player's protection ability to work abnormally.

Q Does the Balloonist being N1 drunk or poisoned register to the Mathematician?
A Probably not, since the Balloonist will still learn a player.

Q Can a Barista doubled player whose ability functions abnormally ping the Mathematician twice?
A No.

  The Mathematician counts how many players' abilities functioned abnormally, not how often they did so,
  and a Barista doubled player is still only one player.

Q If the Cannibal gains two abilities that both fail before the Mathematician next wakes up, how many times is the Mathematician pinged?
A Once, it is the _Cannibal_ ability that has malfunctioned.

  This assumes that the failure is not due to self-poisoning.

  This scenario could arise when:
  # D1 a daytime info gatherer is executed;
  # N2 the Cannibal is made drunk or poisoned at night while the Mathematician learns nothing about the Cannibal who has not acted;
  # D2 the Cannibal uses the ability gained from the most recent execution to gain false info during the day thats ends when a protection character is executed;
  # N3 the Cannibal while still drunk or poisoned fails to protect a player who dies in the night;
  # N3 the Mathematician wakes last of all to learn a +1 from the Cannibal's own ability failing to use the two gained abilities.

Q Does the Cannibal being poisoned after an evil player (Minion / Demon / evil turned Townsfolk / ...) is executed ping the Mathematician?
A No, as it is the Cannibal's own ability that is poisoning them.
  If another character is poisoning them then the Mathematician would be pinged.

Q The Cannibal eats the Drunk. Does that count to the Mathematician?
A No, the Cannibal is working as intended.

Q Does the drunk / poisoned Cult Leader that could have changed alignments ping the Mathematician?
A If both of the droisoned Cult Leader's neighbours are the opposite alignment to the CL's, then the Mathematician is pinged.
  If one neighbour is good and the other evil, then although they could technically ping the Mathematician, they probably should not.

Q Does the Drunk trigger the Mathematician?
A No.

  The ability that the Drunk thinks that they have is failing due to the Drunk's own ability working correctly,
  and the Mathematician only detects failures due to another character's ability.
  If the Drunk believes that they have an info ability then regardless of whether they get true or false info the Mathematician is never pinged.

Q Does the Exorcist picking the Demon register to the Mathematician?
A If the Demon should be waking up to use their ability, and cannot because of the exorcism,
  then their ability has functioned abnormally due to another character,
  and this registers to the Mathematician.

Q If the Barista 1 Townsfolk targeting the unpicked Goon is not made drunk ... does this register to the Mathematician?
A Yes.  The Goon failing to drunk the first player to pick her means that her ability worked abnormally.

Q If the Juggler does not juggle on the first day and the ST decides not to show a number,
  is the Mathematician pinged?
A No, since the Juggler not receiving a number is not due to another character ability.

Q If the Juggler juggles on her day but the next night she changes character (Barber / Pit-Hag / Summoner / ...), she does not get her info. Does this register to the Mathematician?
A No. Her ability did not function abnormally at any point; which ability she had simply changed.

Q If the Lunatic believes she is a multi-kill Demon when the Demon is a single kill Demon (or vice versa), 
  would the Mathematician inherently be pinged every night?
A Yes.

  The Lunatic's jinx with the Mathematician is that the Mathematician learns if the Lunatic attacks a different player(s) than the real Demon attacks,
  and this would include attacking different numbers of players 

Q If either the Lunatic or the Demon is the Po that charges while the other attacks, does that alert the Mathematician?
A Yes.

  The Lunatic's jinx with the Mathematician is that the Mathematician learns if the Lunatic attacks a different player(s) than the real Demon attacks,
  and attacking no one is different to attacking someone.

Q Is the Mathematician pinged when the Lunatic who thinks she is the Lleech or Pukka makes a N1 pick when the actual Demon does not N1 pick?
A Yes.

  The Lunatic's jinx with the Mathematician is that the Mathematician learns if the Lunatic attacks a different player(s) than the real Demon attacks,
  and attacking no one is different to attacking someone.

Q Is the Mathematician pinged every night that there is no Demon to learn the Lunatic and their picks in a Summoner game?
A Yes, as the Demon knows part of the Lunatic ability is functioning abnormally.
  Also the jinx between the Lunatic and the Mathematician applies: the non-existent Demon did not attack the same players as the Lunatic.

Q What is the interaction between the Mathematician and the Magician?
  Does the Mathematician pick up on the Demons' and Minions' abilities "not working properly", as it does whenever the Spy or the Recluse interacts with a character?
A No, because the Mathematician counts how many abilities malfunctioned,
  and Demon and Minion info is not happening due to their character abilities, rather due to their character type and game rules.

  Although, interestingly, in a game with the Poppy Grower and the Magician,
  the Poppy Grower dying and giving the Demon and Minions their info is considered part of the Poppy Grower ability,
  meaning that the Mathematician would detect if the Magician ability caused the Demon and Minions to learn an extra player from the Poppy Grower ability.

Q Does the Mayor redirecting another character's attack register to the Mathematician?
A Yes.  The Mayor has caused another character's killing ability to act abnormally.

Q If the Ojo picks a character that is out of play, would that trigger the Mathematician's number?
A No. The Ojo killing a different character to the one they chose is not a malfunction, it's part of the Ojo's own ability.
  Unless the character actually was in play but misregistered (Spy / Recluse) as an out of play character.

Q If the Philosopher picks an ability while drunk or poisoned,
  do they register to the Mathematician once and then never again,
  or do they register each time they use their non-existent ability? 
A They would ping the Mathematician every time they attempted to use the ability they think they gained and it produces a wrong result,
  because the ST is only able to do that while the Philosopher is continuously drunk or poisoned,
  so it is still due to another character's ability that such deception is even possible.
  
-------------combine
Q After the Pit-Hag creates a Demon and deaths are arbitrary, is the Demon's kill being blocked a +1 to the Mathematician?
A Yes.

Q How do Pit-Hag arbitrary deaths register to the Mathematician?
A The Pit-Hag's arbitrary death ability allows the ST to kill any player and protect any player from death.
  So if the Demon's target does not die due to the PH allowing the ST to protect that player, 
  that is +1 to the Mathematician (place an abnormal token on the Demon). 
  If the ST uses the Pit-Hag's ability to kill additional players,
  then that is the PH's ability functioning normally,
  so that is not a +1 to the Mathematician.
-----------------

Q Does the Pit-Hag picking a character that is in play register to the Mathematician?
A No, because their ability is working normally according to their own ability text.
  Besides, even if this was classified as a malfunction,
  it is due to their own ability, and not another character's ability.

Q Does the Alchemist Poisoner / Apprentice Poisoner / ST with the Poisoner ability granted by the Plague Doctor targetting the Poisoner ping the Mathematician?
A Yes, the Poisoner's ability worked abnormally due to another character's ability.
  Although they are poisoned by the Poisoner ability, the other player is still another character, the Alchemist / Apprentice / Plague Doctor.

Q The ST Poisoner, made by the Plague Doctor dying, poisons a Townsfolk whose ability then malfunctions. Does it ping the Mathematician?
A Yes.  Even though the ST is not a player, a player has an ability malfunctioning, and it was technically caused by the Plague Doctor player.

Q If the Psychopath target does not die (Fool / Sailor / Tea Lady) does this register to the Mathematician?
A Yes, the Psychopath's ability acted abnormally due to another character's ability.

Q Do preached Minions register to the Mathematician?
A Only if the Minion would have done something or woken to use their ability that night or the previous day.

  For example after preaching:
  * the Baron never wakes for any reason: no pings, there is nothing to work abnormally;
  * the Poisoner no longer wakes up each night to poison someone: pings the Mathematician every night they are alive and preached;
  * the Evil Twin, when the twin info has already gone out, and the Good Twin is not executed: no ping tonight;
  * the Evil Twin is not woken to be informed of the Good Twin's new character: ping for the Mathematician tonight;
  * the evil team does not win after the Good Twin is executed: ping for the Mathematician tonight.

Q Is the Mathematician pinged if the Savant receives two true statements due to a Barista 1?
A Yes, the Savant's ability acted abnormally due to another character's ability.

Q Does the No Dashii failing to poison a Townsfolk neighbour register to the Mathematician?
A Yes.

  This could happen when, for example:
  * the Soldier, who is safe from all harmful effects of the Demon, neighbours the No Dashii;
  * the neighbour is protected that night by the Monk.

Q Does the Slayer killing the Recluse, ping the Mathematician?
A Yes.

Q Does a poisoned Snake Charmer choosing the Demon cause a Mathematician ping?
A Depends on the source of the poisoning:
  * a self-poisoning SC means no ping, since the malfunction is not due to another character's ability
  * another character poisoning the SC is a Mathematician ping
  
  The same applies to any player that gains the Snake Charmer ability (Apprentice / Cannibal / Pixie / Snake Charmer) that is then poisoned or self-poisoned.

Q How many times is the Mathematician pinged when the drunk Soldier, who is Monk protected, is attacked by the neighbouring No Dashii?
A Twice:
  # the Soldier being poisoned by the Demon, when they should be safe from the Demon;
  # the Demon's kill is blocked by the Monk.

Q In a Spirit of Ivory game, after an extra evil player is created,
  does an alignment changing ability (Bounty Hunter / Cult Leader / Goon / Mezepheles...) failing to flip a player's alignment
  ping the Mathematician?
A Yes.

Q Does the drunk Village Idiot register to the Mathematician?
A Only if they are drunk due to another character's ability.  If they are drunk due to their own VI ability then that is their ability acting normally.

Q Does the self poisoning Widow trigger the Mathematician?
A No, the Mathematician only detects abnormalities due to other players' abilities.

---------------------------------combine
Q If a new Mathematician is created (Barber / Pit-Hag / ...) 
  would they read the "abnormal" tokens placed the previous day,
  or does the new ability instance mean they only "see" abnormalities that happen after they entered play?
A They would see all abnormalities from the day.

Q Does the Mathematician detect players affected by drunkenness / poisoning / misregistration?
A Only if the player's ability works differently to what their ability states.
  The Mathematician does not detect drunkenness or poisoning inherently,
  only actually bad info, a mechanical ability not working when it should have, and misregistration.

  The Mathematician is pinged when, for example:
  * the Devil's Advocate chooses the Goon, becomes drunk, and the Goon is executed the next day,
  * the drunk Fisherman receives bad advice,
  * the drunk or poisoned Goon fails to flip alignment when chosen by a player of the opposite alignment,
  * the Grandmother is shown the Spy misregistering as a good Townsfolk,
  * the Poisoner fails to poison the Goon who instead makes the Poisoner drunk,
  * the Recluse misregistering as a Minion poisons the Cannibal,
  * the Recluse misregisters as evil to the Chef,
  * the poisoned Slayer targets the Demon who does not die,
  * the poisoned Soldier dies to the Demon's attack,
  * the poisoned, but not self-poisoned, Snake Charmer chooses the Demon.

  If a player still gets true info despite drunkenness / poisoning / misregistration,
  then their ability has functioned exactly as it should and the Mathematician is not pinged:
  * the poisoned Artist receives a correct answer,
  * the Empath sat between the Recluse misregistering as evil and the Spy registering as a Townsfolk correctly received a one.

  The Mathematician is not pinged if a drunk / poisoned mechanical ability is not used, or does nothing which is the expected result:
  * the drunk Slayer targets a non-Demon,
  * the target of the drunk Devil's Advocate protection is executed and does not die.

Q If a player receives true info while drunk or poisoned,
  is the ability causing the drunkenness or poisoning considered to have acted abnormally, registering to the Mathematician?
A No.

  As long as the player is successfully made drunk or poisoned then the ability causing this effect has functioned normally and the Mathematician is not pinged.
  If the target has an info ability and receives true info then their ability too has functioned normally so again nothing registers to the Mathematician.

Q Does the Dreamer seeing a good role and a Minion role when checking a Legion player ping the Mathematician?
A Yes.  The Dreamer is not seeing the correct character, due to another character's ability.

Q Does the poisoned/drunk Sailor failing to make someone drunk ping the Mathematician?
A Yes.

  While the Mathematician does not necessarily detect if a player is drunk or poisoned,
  she does detect any players whose abilities malfunction since the previous dawn due to those states.

Q If a character that acts during the day (Fisherman / Slayer / ...) is poisoned at night, when is the Mathematician pinged?
A Not on the night of the poisoning but the following night and only
  if the player attempted to use their ability during the day and it worked abnormally.

Q Do Djinn jinxes register as abnormalities to the Mathematician?
  For example:
  * the Pit-Hag creating the Damsel and then the ST picking who to be the Damsel;
  * the Spy not seeing the Grimoire due to the Poppy Grower;
  * a Minion guessing the Damsel in a Spy / Widow game not ending the game;  ...
A There is no official stance or consensus on Djinn jinxes and the Mathematician.
  As long as the ST is consistent and explains how they run it to their players then it can be ruled either way.

  Arguments against pinging the Mathematician include:
  * jinxes are rules for how the characters work together so are not abnormalities;
  * they are abnormalities but are due to jinxes not to other character abilities.

Q Does the Demon's target not dying (Fool / Innkeeper / Monk / Sailor / Soldier / Tea Lady / ...) ping the Mathematician?
A Yes, the Demon's ability worked abnormally due to another character's ability, so that registers to the Mathematician.

  This includes when the ST picks the kill for the Demon (Legion / Lil' Monsta / Ojo / Yaggababble / ...).

Q A 'might' ability (Cerenovus / Harpy / Mayor / Recluse / Spy / ...) cannot trigger while drunk or poisoned.
  Could this register to the Mathematician if the ST had wanted to use that ability?
A Yes.

  While affected by drunkenness or poisoning:
  * the Recluse and the Spy cannot misregister, 
    so must be seen as their true alignment if checked (Empath / Ogre / Village Idiot / ...).
  * the Mayor cannot bounce their death an night,
  * the Cerenovus and Harpy cannot trigger executions or deaths due to madness breaks.
  
  If the ST had wanted to misregister/bounce/execute/kill but could not due to the corresponding ability being affected by drunkenness or poisoning,
  then the Mathematician is pinged.  If the ST would not have used the ability anyway then there is no need to inform the Mathematician.

  Note that some STs will run that it does not ping the Mathematician reasoning it would be too ambiguous.


=======
=Mayor=
=======
Q If the Demon and the Twins are alive in final three and the Good Twin is the sober and healthy Mayor,
  does good win the game by not executing?
A No, good cannot win while the Twins are alive.
  This situation is unwinnable for the good team and the game can be ended right there.

Q Can the Mayor win still trigger after the Gangster kills one of their living neighbours?
A Yes, a Gangster kill is not an execution.

Q If the Ojo targets the Mayor, can the kill still bounce to another player?
A Yes.

Q If the Demon kills the Mayor, can the Mayor bounce kill the sober Soldier?
A No, as the source of the bounced kill is still considered to be the Demon, not the Mayor, so the Soldier is safe.

Q Who wins in final three with the Mayor and the Vortox with no executions?
A The good team. Both abilities would trigger and since it is a tie between two character abilities good would win.

Q Does the Zombuul register as dead to the Mayor?
A Yes, meaning that if only the registering as dead Zombuul, the Mayor and one other player are left alive,
  then the Mayor win cannot happen as from the Mayor's perspective there are only two left alive.

  If the Zombuul is registering as dead and there are three other players alive that includes the Mayor
  then the Mayor's win condition can be triggered by not executing today.

Q What happens when the evil Mayor (Bounty Hunter / Mezepheles) convinces the town to not execute in final three?
A Evil wins.

Q Can the protected Mayor (Innkeeper / Monk / Tea Lady) still bounce an attempted kill?
A No.  The Mayor's ability is "if you die". If they are protected, they cannot die so there can be no bounce.

Q Could the Mayor bounce kill the Demon, ending the game?
A Yes, probably a bad idea though.

Q Can the Mayor bounce a kill to a player that cannot die, either because they are protected (Innkeeper / Monk / Soldier / Tea Lady / ...) or already dead?
A Yes, resulting in no one dying.

Q Do Travellers count as players for the Mayor's victory condition?
A Yes.  In order to trigger a Mayor win the Travellers would need to be exiled first.


============
=Mezepheles=
============
Q Can the Mezepheles turn the Magician evil?
A Yes.  While the Mezepheles player thinks that the Magician player is the Demon,
  their Mezepheles ability registers the Magician as good,
  and therefore would turn them that night if they say the word.

Q What happens if the Mezepheles is preached?
A If they are preached N1, then the Mez does not learn their word.
  However, if the Preacher ever dies or becomes drunk or poisoned, then the Mezepheles would learn their word. 
  
  If they are preached on a later night,
  players who say the word after that point do not turn evil but still use up the Mezepheles ability.
  
  If they are preached on the night that a good player would have turned after saying the word,
  the player is not turned and the Mez ability is used up.

Q Does the Preacher picking the Mezepheles turn the evil turned player good?
A No, the turned player stays evil.
  But if the Mez is preached on the same night when a player would turn evil, then they have no ability and no one turns.

Q Could the Recluse register as evil when they say the Mezepheles word, so not turn evil? 
A Yes, then it would be the next good player that says the word that turns evil that night.

Q Is the Mezepheles ability used up if the first good player to say the word cannot turn evil?
A Yes.

  There are some scenarios where a good player says the word but does not turn evil causing the Mez to lose their ability,
  including when: 
  * one extra evil has already been createdin a Spirit of Ivory game;
  * the Mez is babysitting Lil' Monsta and the word was said by the Soldier / Monk-protected player.

Q If new instances of the Mezepheles are created could the result be multiple evil players?
A Yes, which is why the Spirit of Ivory is recommended for scripts where this is possible, to prevent too many evils being created and ruining the game.

Q Could the Spy register as good when they say the Mezepheles word, triggering the Mez's ability, so using it up?
A Yes, if the ST is feeling mean.

Q Can a good Mezepheles say the word and turn themself evil?
A Yes, assuming they are the first good player to say the word.

Q What happens if a good player says the Mezepheles's secret word during N1,
  after the Mez's point in the night order where they learn the word but before D1 starts?
A The good player turns on N2.

Q If the Mezepheles gets someone to say the word but they die by execution, does the person turn?
A No, because the Mezepheles' ability can no longer work in death.
  Note if the _target_ instead is dead, they can still turn.

Q Does the drunk or poisoned Mezepheles still turn a good player evil at night?
A If they are drunk at their spot in the night order, no. 
  If they were drunk when the word was said but sober at their place in the night order, yes.

Q Can a player be turned by the Mezepheles by saying the word before the Mez themself has learnt it?
A No, the word does not functionally exist until the Mez learns it,
  so prior usages of the relevant word do not count as the one use of the ability for either using up the ability or turning players evil.

Q Can the drunk or poisoned Mezepheles learn the incorrect word on N1?
A Yes, if the ST is feeling mean.

Q When does the first good player to say the Mezepheles word turn evil?
A At the Mez's turn in the night order.


==========
=Minstrel=
==========
Q Does a mid game Minstrel created (Barber / Damsel / Philosopher / Pit-Hag / ...) the night after a Minion execution immediately drunk everybody?
A No, the Minstrel ability must be in play when the Minion "dies by execution" (present tense), so coming into play after the fact has no effect.

Q If the public Goblin is executed does the Minstrel immediately activate and block the Goblin's wincon?
A No, the Goblin win is triggered before the Minstrel can drunk them.
C https://discord.com/channels/569683781800296501/696695228496871436/1021765071237546005

Q If the Poisoner / Widow, who is poisoning the Minstrel, is executed, does the Minstrel trigger?
A The concensus is no.

  The Minstrel was poisoned at the time the Minion was executed, since 
  the order of events is:
  # Minion is executed;
  # Minion dies;
  # Poison goes away.

  The Minstrel works well on its home script but can have issues on custom scripts.

Q If it is a Minstrel day with the alive Scarlet Woman does the game end if the Demon is executed?
A Yes.

-----------------reword?
Q Does the Minstrel drunkenness also affect dead players for the purposes of situations like Vigor-killed Minions, the Plague Doctor ability, etc?
A The Minstrel's ability reads "all other players (except Travellers)", so yes, dead players are still players.
  As per the ability text the only ones not hit are Travellers and the Minstrel themself.
  Additionally, any Minion ability gained by the ST through the PD is not turned off as the ST is not a player.

--Q Does the ST with a Minion ability granted by the Plague Doctor become drunk on a Minstrel night?
--A No, their Minion ability still functions.
------------------


======
=Monk=
======
Q Can the Demon still Barber swap a Monk protected player?
A Yes. Changing characters is not considered a harmful effect, and even if it was, the character changing is happening because of the Barber's ability, not the Demon's.

Q If a dead Monk-protected player is targeted by the Al-Hadikhia, can they be resurrected if they chose live?
A Yes, living and resurrections are not considered harmful.

Q Does the Monk protected, No Dashii poisoned, Minstrel proc after a Minion is executed?
A The Monk is not protecting the Minstrel when the Minion dies since the Monk only works during the night.
  So the No Dashii poisoned Minstrel does not proc.

Q Is the Monk protected player and the Soldier safe at night from the Minion holding Lil' Monsta?
A Yes, so they cannot
  * be turned evil by the Mezepheles;
  * die to the Godfather;
  * be poisoned by the Poisoner or the Widow;
  * be made mad by the Cerenovus or the Harpy.
  
  However they can:
  * swap characters (Pit-Hag) as being transformed is not considered a harmful effect;
  * be stabbed by the Assassin.

Q Does a Vigormortis killed Minion lose their ability for the night if they are protected by the Monk?
A No; having an ability is not considered a harmful effect.

Q Does the Monk protect against the poisoning due to a Minion killed by the Vigormortis?
A Yes.

  The poisoning is due to the Demon's ability so the Monk can make the targeted Townsfolk healthy tonight.

Q Does the Monk ability protect from positive Demon effects: regurgitating, resurrecting, etc.
A No, it specifically protects from harmful effects. Regurgitation and resurrection are not considered to be harmful.

Q Is a Monk protected Minion blocked from becoming the Imp when the Imp self-kills?
A No, becoming the Demon is not consider a harmful effect.

Q What is and is not considered to be a harmful effect that the Monk protects against?
A Considered harmful, so blocked by the Monk if caused by the Demon or a player holding Lil' Monsta:
  * death,
  * poisoning,
  * misinformation,
  * becoming evil,
  * madness.

  Not considered harmful, so not blocked by the Monk's ability:
  * changing character,
  * being the Lleech host,
  * resurrection / regurgitation


===========
=Moonchild=
===========
Q If the Moonchild dies and chooses the Demon who is the same night snake charmed, does the former Demon now poisoned Snake Charmer die?
A No. The ex-Demon was evil at the time of the Moonchild pick, so no kill was "scheduled" to hit her that night.
  The Moonchild ability, at their turn in the night order, simply ignores her.

Q What happens if the Moonchild picks a player that later flips alignment (Goon due to their own ability / Mezepheles turned / ...) before the Moonchild's turn in the night order?
A If the player is good at the time of the Moonchild's pick
  then they are marked with the Moonchild's reminder token,
  and die at the Moonchild's spot in the night order,
  regardless of whether they have become evil.

  If the player was evil at the time of the pick and became good at night, such as when the Goon is flipped, then they do not die.

Q When does the Moonchild need to be drunk or poisoned for their ability to fail?
A At the time in the night order when their ability is resolved,
  potentially killing someone.

  Since the Moonchild is a backwards-checking character,
  any drunkenness and poisoning at the time of the pick is immaterial;
  the picked player, if good, is still marked to die with the reminder token,
  and will die if the Moonchild is sober and healthy at their turn in the night order.

Q When does a player chosen by the Moonchild die?
A At the Moonchild's point in the night order.

Q Does the Moonchild kill still happen if they become drunk or poisoned,
  are swapped to another character (Barber / Pit-Hag / ...)
  or are resurrected / regurgitated (Al-Hadikhia / Shabaloth)?
A The Moonchild kill only happens at their turn in the night order as long as they are sober, healthy and still the dead Moonchild.

  If in between their picking a player and when the kill would happen they become drunk, poisoned or another character, there is no kill.
  If they are revived before their turn in the night order,
  then they are treated as a new instance of the Moonchild;
  any effects due to the previous instance of the character no longer apply so the ST removes any applicable reminder tokens
  meaning that in this case the previous Moonchild's pick is no longer scheduled to die.


========
=Mutant=
========
Q If the Philosopher who chose the Mutant ability claims to the Philo-Mutant are they breaking madness?
A ST decision.

  Madness is always contextual,
  but if an ability gainer (Cannibal / Philosopher / Pixie) claims to be a Townsfolk who gained the Mutant ability
  they are not claiming to be the Mutant, or an Outsider ...
  unless this becomes the group's code for actually being the Mutant...
  which reiterates the point, that madness is entirely contextual.

Q Can the Mutant be executed for a madness break after they are dead?
A No, the dead Mutant has no ability.  Generally characters have no abilities when dead unless otherwise specified.

  This means:
  * they are free to claim Mutant now that they are dead,
  * they can no longer be punished if they had claimed to be an Outsider while alive and died from another cause.

Q Can the ST execute the drunk or poisoned Mutant for breaking madness?
A No, the Mutant ability to self execute would not work if they are drunk or poisoned.

Q If the Mutant is mad about being an Outsider today but is not executed, then from the following day onwards claim to be a Townsfolk for the rest of the game,
  could the ST still execute them for the madness break whenever they felt like?
A No, they cannot be executed for the earlier madness break.
  It is possible for the Mutant to backpedal after claiming to be an Outsider, more difficult than if they had not, but possible.

Q Can there be two executions if the Mutant breaks madness after a regular execution during the day but before everyone goes to sleep?
A Yes.

  The Mutant is never safe and can be executed at any time, day or night.

Q Has the Mutant broken madness if they claim to be an off script Outsider?
A Almost all madness break questions are best answered with "it depends".

  If the ST believes that the player is genuinely attempting to convince others that they are an Outsider then it is a madness break.
  If it sounds like they are joking and are making non Outsider claims elsewhere then it is probably not a genuine attempt.


===============
=Nightwatchman=
===============
Q If the Nightwatchman is drunk or poisoned when they pick a player, is that player woken?
A No, unless the Nightwatchman picks themself in which case the ST pretends that their ability is working normally.

  Drunk or poisoned players do not have an ability so the Nightwatchman in this case does not have an ability that would cause another player to wake.


===========
=No Dashii=
===========
Q Would the Damsel neighbouring the No Dashii become poisoned if they become a Townsfolk?
A Yes, assuming no other Townsfolk between the Damsel and the No Dashii.
==
Q Does the No Dashii skip over dead Townsfolk neighbours?
A No.

Q Is a Townsfolk poisoned by the No Dashii still poisoned after they die?
A Yes.  The No Dashii does not care about living or dead status, only that the player is a Townsfolk,
  So any while dead or on death triggered ability will be poisoned.
  If the player ceases to be a Townsfolk then the poisoning must move.

Q Does the No Dashii still poison a neighbouring Townsfolk if they are evil (Bounty Hunter / Mezepheles)?
A Yes, the No Dashii's ability does not care about alignment.

Q If a No Dashii poisoned Townsfolk gets protected by the Monk they are temporarily healthy for that night. Does the next neighbour then get poisoned?
A No. The No Dashii poison does not skip over safe players, it only skips over non-Townsfolk.
  So just the one Townsfolk on the other side of the No Dashii would be poisoned.

Q Does the No Dashii poisoning move if one of her Townsfolk neighbours becomes a non-Townsfolk (Barber / Pit-Hag / ...)?
A Yes. It also moves if someone closer than their current Townsfolk neighbour becomes a Townsfolk.
  It is constantly checking for who is the closest Townsfolk to the No Dashii's left and right, and poisoning those two players.

Q The No Dashii swaps one of their poisoned Townsfolk neighbours using the Barber.
  Does the poisoning follow the Townsfolk?
A The No Dashii poisoning is updated to only poison their nearest Townsfolk neighbours regardless of living status.
  So the poisoning only remains if there are no intervening Townsfolk.

Q Does the No Dashii poisoning skip over immune Townsfolk?
A No, the No Dashii only ever skips non-Townsfolk players.

  If the neighbouring Townsfolk player is immune in some way (Monk / Soldier / ...) then the poisoning simply stops and has no effect.

Q If the No Dashii moves to another player (Barber / Engineer / ...) does the poisoning move?
A Yes.

  The previous No Dashii's nearest Townsfolk neighbours become healthy and
  the new No Dashii's nearest Townsfolk neighbours become poisoned.


=======
=Noble=
=======
Q Can the Noble see the Cult Leader as their evil ping on N1?
A No, as the Cult Leader cannot change alignment until after the Noble receives their info,
  so will always be good when the Noble wakes even if they become evil later that night.

Q Can the Noble see the Goon as their evil ping on N1?
A Yes, as they might have changed alignment to evil before the Noble wakes.
  Note the Noble is not choosing the Goon with their ability, so can never be made drunk or flip/maintain the Goon's alignment if the Noble sees them.

Q If the Snake Charmer swaps with the Demon on N1, can they be the Noble's evil ping?
A Yes, as the swap will have happened before the Noble wakes, and the Noble's info must always be based on the current game state.

Q Can misregistration affect the Noble pings?
A Yes.  The Noble can see the Recluse as evil and the Spy as good.


======
=Ogre=
======
Q Can the Ogre be the Good Twin?
A Yes.
  The Ogre would learn that they are the Good Twin, before they make the Ogre pick.

  The Ogre can exploit their twin status to determine if they change alignment
  as should a different player later come forward as a twin,
  the Ogre would strongly suspect that they must have turned evil.

Q If the Ogre is drunk or poisoned when the choose a player, are they woken on a later night to make their actual pick?
A No.  

  As part of their ability the Ogre is immune to drunkenness and poisoning so becomes the alignment of whoever they picked on their first night.

Q What alignment does an Ogre have before they have chosen someone.
A They are good.

Q If the Ogre is regurgitated or resurrected (Al-Hadikhia / Shabaloth), do they pick again?
A Yes.

Q If the Ogres friend changes alignment, does the Ogre change alignment too?
A At 15+ players, the ST can rule that the Ogre is always the same alignment as their friend.
  * the friend is marked with a reminder token to help the ST keep track of this;
  * this rule is only recommended for games of 15+ players to prevent too many evil players happening. 


=====
=Ojo=
=====
Q Does the Ojo picking the character that the Philosopher chose the ability of, cause the Philo to die?
A No.

Q What are the ST's options if the Ojo targets the Recluse?
A The ST has several options:
  * If the Recluse registers as the Recluse then the Recluse dies. 
  * If the Recluse is drunk or poisoned at the time then they have no choice but to register as the Recluse.
  * If the Recluse registers as anything else then there is no Recluse in play as far as the Ojo is concerned and so the ST chooses kills.

Q What happens when the Ojo picks the Soldier?
A Nothing. The Soldier is targeted but cannot die so there are no Ojo deaths that night.

Q If the Ojo targets the Village Idiot, do they all die or just one?
A Whenever there are multiples of a character in play, the Ojo kills one instance of them and it is the ST's choice.

Q If the Ojo picks an out of play character, are kills arbitrary, meaning there can be two kills,
  especially if there are multi-kill Demons on the script?
A Sort of.

  The ST can choose any number of people to die to the Ojo,
  with or without a multi-kill Demon on the script,
  but deaths are not arbitrary so the ST cannot save people who die from other abilities.
  There can be multiple kills or none but one kill is still the recommended number most of the time.
  
Q Can the ST choose to sink a missed Ojo kill?
A Yes.

Q What happens if the Ojo picks a dead character?
A It would be the equivalent to sinking the kill.

  As a character is in play even when dead,
  the Ojo still attacks them but because they are already dead nothing happens,
  and there will be no death due to the Ojo that night.

Q If the Ojo misses, can the ST pick no one?
A No, they must pick a player.

  If the ST desires that no one dies to the Demon tonight then the chosen player could already be dead or protected.


===============
=Organ Grinder=
===============
Q How does the Butler's voting work when the Organ Grinder ability is in play?
A As per the Butler jinx with the Organ Grinder, while eyes are closed during voting, the Butler may raise their hand to vote but their vote is only counted if their master voted too.

Q What is the Flowergirl jinx with the Organ Grinder?
A There no longer is one!

Q What happens when the Organ Grinder dies to the Golem?
A If there was already a blind vote that day then the consequent open-eyed vote will confirm that the Organ Grinder was just killed.
  The OG dying between votes does not mean town learns who is on the block with how many votes.
  Instead future votes are run open-eyed and the results announced: "N votes is / is not enough and X is / is not on the block",
  and town will have to work out the prior votes based on this info.

Q What is the reasoning for the Organ Grinder/Minstrel and Organ Grinder/Preacher hate jinxes?
A Those abilities do not play well together:
  * It is a hard confirmed Minstrel day after a Minion is executed if there is no death at night and then no need for players to close their eyes for the vote. 
  * It is basically hard confirmed that the Preacher picked the Organ Grinder if one day there is no need for players to close their when previously they had to,
  or if they started off not needing to and then suddenly did because the Preacher died.

  Abilities are not meant to be that hard confirmable most of the time. It is unbalanced to the point of broken so they are simply not allowed to be in play together.

Q The ST gains the Organ Grinder ability via the Plague Doctor in a non-Atheist game.
  As the ST cannot vote, does this mean that the good team cannot lose by executing the ST?
A Yes.

Q In an Organ Grinder game, where the OG is alive, sober and healthy, when exactly are the ghost votes taken away? 
A Ghost votes are removed at the end of the day, so after all nominations and votes have happened,
  not after every vote as it is typically conducted.
  This is so that players cannot tell where ghost votes were used.
  It is the players' responsibility not to vote twice until then.
 
Q Does the Organ Grinder affect calls for a Traveller's exile?
A No, a call for exile is not a vote.

Q The Organ Grinder is nominated but does not vote on herself, so the votes do not count.  Does this mean that any dead vote that was used is not spent?
A No, any ghost votes were still used and are removed at the end of the day.

Q What happens when the Organ Grinder is drunk or poisoned?
A Voting is conducted with eyes open and vote counts are confirmed.


==========
=Pacifist=
==========
Q The Virgin nominated by a Townsfolk player causes that player to be executed and the day to end.
  But could the Pacifist prevent that player from also dying?
A Yes, but this is usually a bad idea as it would confirm two good living players.

Q Does the Pacifist turned evil (Bounty Hunter / Mezepheles) save evil players?
A No, their ability text is unchanged.

Q Can the Pacifist's own ability save herself from execution?
A Yes.


=======
=Philo=
=======
Q The Demon Barber swaps the Philosopher, who has already picked a Townsfolk ability, with their Minion.
  What does the Minion become?
A The Philosopher.

Q What happens to the Philosopher Cannibal when the philo-drunk Cannibal is executed?
A Nothing.

  The Philosopher has the Cannibal ability so they eat the Cannibal, gaining the Cannibal ability.
  After the next execution, the Philosopher Cannibal gains a new ability.

Q If the Philosopher chooses the Drunk, what happens?
A Not a great deal:
  * the Philo's ability is spent;
  * the Philo could be told that they now a different Townsfolk, even an unspent Philo if the ST wanted to;
  * the now Philo-drunk Drunk is deceived that their ability is still working, which is believing that they are a Townsfolk.

Q What happens when the Philosopher chooses Lunatic?
A The Lunatic is drunk but from their point of view there is no difference:
  * they still believe that they are the Demon,
  * the ST still takes their choices,
  * they can still fake Marionette/Lunatic/King/Exorcist info.

  The Demon:
  * learns the Philo as their Lunatic,
  * learns the Philo's picks for as long as the Philo is alive, sober and healthy,
  * has no idea who the Lunatic chose.

  The Philosopher:
  * gets to guide the Demon's attacks, 
  * may cause the Lunatic to realise who they are due to their picks not dying.

  If the Philosopher Lunatic ever becomes drunk or poisoned then the Lunatic will sober and the Demon will see the Lunatic's picks, not the Philo Lunatic's.

  If the Philosopher was drunk or poisoned at the time they chose Lunatic then:
  * they lose their once per game ability and do not gain the Lunatic ability;
  * the Demon follows the Lunatic's picks as usual;
  * for as long as the Philo is drunk or poisoned the ST can deceive them into thinking that they did gain the Lunatic ability
    (showing them a Demon token, taking their choices, ...) but once they become sober and healthy the deception must end.

Q The Philosopher chooses an out of play character.
  Later the Pit-Hag creates this character.
  Does that character come into the game drunk?
A Yes, the drunkenness is a constant check for if the character is in play, so as soon as they enter play they are immediately made drunk.

Q If the Philosopher Poppy Grower is poisoned N1 what happens? 
A That depends on the source of the poisoning, as the Philo goes before roles like the Poisoner that choose.
  If the Poisoner chose the Philo it would not stop their ability, but the No Dashii would.
--  If the Philo PG is ever picked by the Poisoner the evil team do not learn each other, only in death can that happen.

Q If the Recluse misregisters to the Philosopher, could both the Recluse and the Philosopher Recluse both be working?
A Yes.

  If the Philo sees the Recluse as a Minion or Demon
  then the Recluse avoids the Philo's drunkenness and is free to register as whatever the ST feels like registering them as to other players' abilities,
  meaning for two active Recluse abilities in the game.
  As soon as the Recluse registers as the Recluse to the living, sober and healthy Philosopher Recluse,
  they are drunk as long as the Philosopher is active.

Q If the Philosopher chooses Snake Charmer and becomes the Demon does the actual Snake Charmer becomes sober?
A Yes, they are immediately sober as the Philosopher causing the drunkenness is no longer in play.
  Additionally the former Demon is now the self-poisoned Philosopher.

Q If the dead Philosopher who has used their ability is resurrected, what happens?
A They are treated as a new instance of the Philosopher, with an unused Philosopher ability, and do not maintain any other previously gained ability.

  If the Philo died while they had an "even if dead" ability,
  then that ability was maintained while they were dead, then lost upon resurrection.
  Otherwise, any gained ability was lost when they died.

Q Does the Philosopher drunk the character or the player?
A The character.

  The Philosopher ability is a constant check for the character whose ability they have.
  If the player with that character swaps to another character (Barber / Pit-Hag / ...) then they become sober.
  Conversely if a player becomes that character then they are immediately drunk.

Q If the sober and healthy Philosopher chooses an info gathering Townsfolk ability and is later drunk or poisoned the same night, what happens?
A The Philosopher's once per game ability is used up, 
  and being sober and healthy when they used it they succeeded in gaining the Townsfolk ability.

  While they are sober and healthy the respective Townsfolk is drunk.
  When they become drunk or poisoned, the respective Townsfolk is temporarily sober and their ability functions normally tonight.
  
  If the Philosopher had acted on a later night while drunk or poisoned then they would not have gained the ability,
  and the ST would lie to them for as long as they were drunk or poisoned.

Q What happens if the Philosopher chooses Philosopher?
A They become self-drunk and their ability is used up.

  Gaining the ability of the Philo turns them into the Philo-Philo creating a paradox
  and droisoning paradoxes are usually resolved as everyone involved is droisoned.

  The ST could check in on the player in the morning and make sure they wanted to do that instead of trying to save their ability
  because they might have misunderstood the Philosopher.

Q The Philosopher goes Philosopher, becoming self-drunk.  The next night as the Philo-Philosopher they pick an info ability.
  The following night they are made Barista'd true, sober and healthy.
  But do they have the ability they picked?
A No.  On the second night they did not gain an ability as they were drunk, so the third night they should not be woken for an ability they do not have.

Q What happens when the Philosopher tries to gain the ability of a character that is in a hate jinx with another already in play character?
A The ST should shake their head no, show the Philosopher the in play role that the ability is hard jinxed with and put them back to sleep.

  The ability is not gained and the Philosopher's once per game ability is now spent, but the trade-off is they have learnt an in play role.
  For example, attempting to gain the Engineer role when Legion is in play will alert the Philosopher to it being a Legion game.

Q If the Philosopher dies before the character they chose does, does the Philo-drunkenness go away?
A Yes.

Q The poisoned Philosopher picks an each night role. 
  Do they ping the Chambermaid for each night that they wake up?
A Yes, they are waking for their own ability.

Q The Philosopher is drunk or poisoned on the night they use their ability.
  They are sober and healthy the next night.
  Do they have the ability they chose by then?
A If the Philosopher is drunk or poisoned at the time they pick a character, they fail to gain the corresponding ability and are a spent Philosopher.
  If they chose a mechanical ability, it will not work at all.

  However, if they chose an info ability then for as long as they remain drunk or poisoned,
  the ST should deceive them that they gained the ability by giving them arbitrary information when they would expect it.
  The ST is free to stop the deception if they want to, 
  but once the Philo is sober and healthy again, the ST must stop it,
  treating them as a spent Philosopher that does not wake.
  The Philo is then likely to deduce what must have happened and can look for the cause.


=========
=Pit-Hag=
=========
Q Can the Pit-Hag create the Atheist?
A Yes, and the good team wins if the Storyteller is executed.
  But the ST can now use their new game-breaking rules to do anything including turn the Atheist into any other character if they do not want to deal with it.

Q Can the Pit-Hag make someone the Barber, then someone else the Barber after the first one gets Fang Gu jumped?
A If the Barber becomes the Fang Gu, then there is no Barber in play and it is valid for the Pit-Hag to make a new one.

Q Could the Pit-Hag turn the previous day's executee into the Barber or the Hatter and have their ability trigger?
A No. The Barber and the Hatter only trigger if they die, not if they are dead. 
  So if someone turned into Hatter or Barber after death, it does not trigger.
  Where abilities say 'when you die' or 'if you died' their triggers are on death.

Q Can the Pit-Hag create the Damsel?
A Yes, but as per the Jinx the ST chooses who becomes the Damsel.

  All Minions, including the Pit-Hag, learn immediately the Damsel is in play if the Damsel player is alive.
  If an evil Damsel is created, the evil team loses if a Minion guesses them.

  If the Damsel comes into play after previously being in play, incorrectly guessed and removed, then the Minions get a fresh Damsel guess.

Q What happens when the Alchemist Pit-Hag chooses Damsel?
A The jinx between Pit-Hag and Damsel still applies, so the ST will choose who to make the Damsel.

Q Can the Pit-Hag create the characters that the Drunk, the Lunatic and the Marionette believe themselves to be?
A Yes.

  Unless those character came into play via other means then they are out of play so the Pit-Hag can create them.

Q If the Pit-Hag changes somebody into the Drunk does the ST tell her that she got changed into a role?
A The Drunk ability reads "You think you are a Townsfolk but you are not", so the ST's options are:
  # tell her nothing, if she already thinks she is a Townsfolk, because she sees a Townsfolk token,
  # change her into a different Townsfolk, despite the fact that she is the Drunk.

Q The Pit-Hag turns a good player into the Marionette. What does that player learn?
A The Marionette has to think that she is a good character, so if a Townsfolk or Outsider is changed into the Marionette,
  the ST has several options:

  # tell the now-Marionette nothing, as she already believes that she is a good character
  # tell the now-Marionette that she is the character she already thought she was
  # tell the now-Marionette that she is a different good character than what she previously believed

  The first option is the most common, essentially it turns a player into a Drunk, except the Demon also knows who she is.
  But the other two options are viable depending on the game state.

  The ST has a similar decision if someone is made into the Drunk, except that they can only believe they are a Townsfolk, not an Outsider.

Q What happens if a good player becomes the Evil Twin (Barber / Pit-Hag)?
A There is now a good player whose character is the Evil Twin.
  This new ability of hers causes her to be paired with an evil player and they learn who each other are:
  * the good-aligned twin learns what character the evil player is,
  * the evil-aligned twin learns the good player is the Evil Twin.

  Good cannot win while both of the Twins live
  and evil wins if the good-aligned Evil Twin is executed.
  
  The most obvious choice for the evil player would be the Pit-Hag,
  but the Demon could be chosen or a dead player if the game is almost at the end and good do not have enough time to execute two players.

Q The Gambler gambles wrong.  Later that night the Pit-Hag creates a Demon.  Can the Gambler survive because deaths are arbitrary?
A No.

  The Gambler acts before the Pit-Hag in the night order and would be already dead by the time the Pit-Hag acts. 
  With the Pit-Hag ability, the ST can only prevent subsequent deaths or cause new ones; they cannot resurrect the dead.

Q Can the Pit-Hag create the character that the Philosopher picks the ability of?
A Yes, if they are out of play.

  The Philosopher only gains the ability, they do not become the chosen character,
  so as long as the chosen character was not already in play,
  the Pit-Hag can successfully create the character.

Q What happens if the Pit-Hag tries to create the evil Politician? Does it just fail, or do they learn they cannot do this and must choose again?
A The ST could remind the Pit-Hag of the jinx if it is a player they know is evil or they could choose to fail it otherwise.

-----------------generalise
Q If the Pit-Hag creates the Snitch, do the Minions immediately get extra bluffs?
A No, after killers and droisoning characters have acted.

  Any starting info roles that enter mid game activate after killers and droisoning.

Q Could the Spy or the Recluse misregister as another character so appear to be out of play so allowing a Pit-Hag to create another?
A Yes, but don't.

Q Can the Pit-Hag create an extra Village Idiot if there is already one in play?
A As per the jinx they can, if there is a spare token.
  In practice this means as long as there are no more than two currently in play, three being the number of tokens that the physical game comes with.

  If the Pit-Hag does create an extra VI this can cause the drunkenness due to the VI ability to move:
  * if only one is currently in play when the extra is made, the ST assigns the drunkenness to one of the two;
  * if two are currently in play and an extra is made, the currently drunk VI can be made sober and one of the other two be drunk, or the drunkenness can remain where it is.

Q Can the ST kill the Zombuul twice when there is a Pit-Hag Demon change?
A Yes.

Q If the Pit-Hag creates a Demon but then loses their ability can an arbitrary deaths night still occur?
A Yes.  As soon as the Pit-Hag creates a Demon arbitrary deaths are global and cannot be removed.

  This covers:
  * the Vigormortis changing character causing the Pit-Hag to lose their ability
  * the Alchemist Assassin, whose ability cannot be blocked, killing the Pit-Hag
  * the Pit-Hag changing themself into a Demon

Q If the Pit-Hag changes the Demon, is the Demon still asked to make a choice as to who to kill?
A ST choice. They do not have to, but they can.

Q After the Pit-Hag creates a Demon and deaths are arbitrary, can the ST allow the Demon's kill to go through?
A Yes.

  A Demon kill failing to go through for any reason,
  registers to the Mathematician, 
  as only other characters' abilities can stop Demon kills.

Q If the Pit-Hag changes another Minion to the Witch,
  then because the Witch comes before the Pit-Hag in the night order,
  does the new Witch wait until the following night to use their ability?
A Yes.

  By the official strict night order ruling, the Witch must wait.
  Some STs run it so that the Witch and the Cerenovus should get to act even if they were created that night, 
  and so long as the ST is consistent and sticks to the spirit of the night order, it is fine.

Q When do arbitrary kills due to the Pit-Hag happen in the night order?
A The arbitrary deaths happen from during the Pit-Hag's turn in the night up to dawn.

Q When the Pit-Hag makes deaths arbitrary, can the ST kill off players that are protected by the Innkeeper or the Lycanthrope?
A Yes, if the Innkeeper / Lycanthrope is killed first.  Deaths may be arbitrary, but protection still works.
  The Lycan's target can also be saved, as they pick after the PH acts.

Q Only one character in a hate jinx can be in play so what happens if the Pit-Hag attempts to make a character that is hard jinxed by a currently in play character? 
  (e.g. trying to create the Spy/Widow while the Heretic is in play)
A The Pit-Hag attempting to make a character that is hard jinxed with an in play character would simply fail in the same way it would if the character was already in play.
  The Pit-Hag is not informed of the failure.
  But if they tried to create a Heretic, the ST should probably shake their head no, point at the jinx area of the character sheet,
  and wait for a valid choice, because the PH has tried to make an invalid choice by their own character's rules.

Q If the Pit-Hag turns the Demon into a non-Demon, what happens?
A If there is no living Demon,
  then barring some other effect that would prolong the game (Evil Twin),
  good would immediately win because "no living Demons" is good's win condition.

Q Can the Pit-Hag turn a dead player?  Is that not a waste of their ability?
A They can and there are reasons for doing so:
  * to turn an alive player into that role requires it being out of play first, such as removing a dead Assassin allows a new Assassin the next night;
  * they could be possibly revived or picked by another player that night;
  * turning someone into the Politician still allows them to turn;
  * turning someone into the Drunk when they expect to be Professor revived, can be awesome to cause confusion.

Q Are the Pit-Hag's transformations reverted on their death?
A No.

Q Can the Pit-Hag change himself to another character?
A Yes.
  This can be used to save his Demon from a tough spot at the expense of no longer being able to Pit-Hag again.

Q In an arbitrary deaths night, can players who could not normally die due to their own or other abilities (Fool / Innkeeper / Monk / Sailor / Soldier / Tea Lady) die tonight?
A It depends.  The Pit-Hag's arbitrary deaths ability does not ignore protections, but some protective abilities do not apply:
  * The Monk protected player and the Soldier are only safe from the Demon, but arbitrary deaths are not due to the Demon, so they could die.
  * The players protected by the Innkeeper / Tea Lady are safe, but should the Innkeeper / Tea Lady die first then the protection is lost, and the previously protected players can now die.
  * the sober Soldier is safe.
  * the unspent Fool could die by being attacked twice.

Q Can the Pit-Hag change the alignment of other players?
A No, only their character.

  If they turn a good player into a Minion or Demon, the result is a good Minion / Demon.
  Likewise, they can turn an evil Minion or Demon into an evil Townsfolk / Outsider.

Q If the Pit-Hag chooses an in play character are they prompted to pick again?
A No, their ability just has no effect tonight.


=======
=Pixie=
=======
Q Would the Pixie Artist be told "you do not have this ability" if they failed madness or the Artist did not die?
A Yes.

Q If the Pixie is made Cerenovus-mad about another character, does it break her initial Pixie madness?
A Generally, yes. If they are not Cere mad on a later day, they may still be able to bring it back around though.
  They can say "I was Cere mad yesterday, I am still the (madness target)".

Q If the Gambler dies to their own gamble, does the Pixie mad about the Gambler get to use that ability that night? 
A No, it is now past the Gambler's turn in the night order, as their death concludes their turn, so the Pixie-Gambler will act the next night instead.

Q The Pixie who saw Philosopher gains the ability after the Philo is executed.
  The Pixie Philosopher chooses the Cannibal ability, instantly gaining the ability of the recent executee, the Philo.
  Does the Pixie Phiosopher Cannibal Philosopher use their ability tonight?
A ST decision.

  Multiple instances of a single ability can be woken in an arbitrary order,
  so the Pixie could be woken again for another use of the Philo ability if the ST wanted,
  losing the ability gained once another player is executed and they revert to the Pixie Phiosopher Cannibal,
  or they could be made to wait until the following night.

Q The Slayer is killed by the Psychopath, and the Pixie-Slayer, if they had been mad enough, would immediately get the Slayer ability and be able to shoot the Demon, correct?
A Yes.

Q How does the Pixie Snake Charmer work?
A If the Pixie is sufficiently mad as the Snake Charmer,
  then they gain the ability after the marked player, the game's starting Snake Charmer, dies.
  If the Pixie Snake Charmer then goes on to successfully charm the Demon, that Demon will become the self-poisoning Pixie.
  
  Note that the marked player never moves, even when players swap characters.
  So if the marked SC charms the Demon and later dies, giving the Pixie their SC ability,
  the Pixie will likely not have a living Demon to charm and the game will be over,
  making for one sad Pixie player.

  However, it is possible for the Pixie Snake Charmer to have a target if the game can continue:
  * the Scarlet Woman was turned;
  * the Pit-Hag created a new Demon after the game continued (Evil Twin / Mastermind);
  * the marked player had become the Imp who self-killed, turning a Minion into a new Imp;
  * the marked player had become the Fang Gu who jumped, turning an Outsider into a new Fang Gu;
  * the marked player had become the Zombuul who is registering as dead and later swaps (Barber / Hatter) to a living player.

Q What happens when the Pixie is affected by the Spy misregistering?
A The Spy is the marked player and they must die.
  The Pixie is shown the character that the Spy misregistered as, which can either be in play or out of play.
  When the Spy dies, the Pixie who was sufficiently mad about being the character that they saw gains the ability if alive, sober and healthy.
  If the Spy dies misregistering as another character the Pixie is unaffected.

Q If the Pixie is shown the Village Idiot, does only one of the VIs need to die in order to turn the Pixie?
A During setup the ST will have marked one of the VIs with the Pixie reminder token - this is the VI that needs to die in order to turn the Pixie.
  The marked VI could be the sober one or the drunk one, if there is one.

Q Can the Pixie created mid game be shown a Townsfolk turned evil (Bounty Hunter / Cult Leader / Mezepheles / ...)?
A Yes; the only requirement for the Pixie is that they are shown an in play Townsfolk, who can be good or evil.

Q After a player dies, could the drunk or poisoned Pixie believe that they gained their ability?
A Yes, but if they ever become sober and healthy then they must be treated normally.

  However, if they believed that they gained an ability that wakes at night,
  they might become suspicious when they are no longer woken.
  So it might be best to only do this when the poisoning or drunkenness is permanent or long-lasting,
  for example when the Pixie is in fact the Drunk or targeted by the Puzzlemaster.

Q Could the Pixie get their ability just before being killed if their marked player dies during the same selection of a multi-kill Demon (Al-Hadikhia / Po / Shabaloth)?
A She could.  The order of the deaths would matter: if the marked player dies before the Pixie then she can gain her ability.

  For example, if the Ravenkeeper and the Pixie-Ravenkeeper both died in that order on the same night,
  then both could get their info.

Q If the Pixie is created late enough that there are no other Townsfolk alive, do they learn a dead in play Townsfolk and just never get the ability?
A The Pixie created mid game can be shown a dead in play Townsfolk and will likely never get their ability.  
 
  A late game Pixie is essentially just confirming an in play Townsfolk and should probably not be trying to gain their ability nor likely can they.
  
Q Can the Pixie learn themself?
A Yes.

  The ST would have no choice if the Pixie were the only Townsfolk player.

Q If the Pixie is drunk or poisoned at the moment their target dies, but is then sober and healthy that night, do they gain the ability?
A No, a droisoned Pixie cannot gain an ability. For as long as they are droisoned the ST can make them think they did though. 

Q What happens if the Pixie's marked player changes character (Barber / Engineer / Farmer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / Summoner / ...)?
A That player still needs to die and the Pixie still needs to be mad as the character they were shown,
  and will receive the ability shown if sufficiently mad,
  no matter what character the marked player currently has.

Q How does a Pixie who is drunk or poisoned on their first night work?
A The ST shows the Pixie any character token, which most likely will be out of play.
  Then an arbitrary player is marked who can be evil, but it is probably best it is not the Demon.
  If at the time of the marked player's death the Pixie is alive, sober and healthy and has been sufficiently mad as the shown character,
  they gain the ability.

Q What happens if the Townsfolk the Pixie is mad about goes out of play (Kazali / Pit-Hag / Summoner / ...)?
A Nothing.
  When the marked player dies, if the Pixie was sufficiently mad they will get the ability that they saw, regardless of the marked player's new ability.

Q Is the Pixie told when they have gained their ability?
A  No.

  When the ability is gained the Pixie is not directly informed by the ST.
  Instead, the ST does what they would do for the standard character with that ability.
  If this involves being woken at night and prompted for a choice then the Pixie will quickly realise that they have gained their ability.

Q What happens if the Pixie's marked player dies then is later resurrected / regurgitated (Al-Hadikhia / Professor / Shabaloth)?
A The Pixie, if they gained the ability, keeps it meaning that there will be two players with the ability.

  The condition for the Pixie to gain the ability of the character token that they saw is,
  besides being mad as the seen character,
  is that the marked player dies, not that they are dead.


===============
=Plague Doctor=
===============
Q If the Plague Doctor grants the Baron ability, does the ST tell the players who changed roles?
A Yes.

Q Can the ST gain the Boomdandy ability after the Plague Doctor is executed?
A Yes, and as per the jinx the Boomdandy ability triggers immediately.

Q Can the ST gain the Evil Twin ability when the Plague Doctor dies?
A No, as per the jinx.

Q Can the ST gain either the Fearmonger or the Goblin ability when the Plague Doctor dies?
A No, as per the jinxes a living Minion is woken and told that they now have the respective ability in addition to their own ability.

Q Can the ST with a Minion ability gained after the Plague Doctor dies become the Demon if the Imp self-kills?
A No, the ST is not a Minion.

Q The Plague Doctor jinx with the Marionette prevents an alive Townsfolk or Outsider neighbouring the Demon from becoming an evil Marionette,
  if there is already an extra evil player.
  Do they become a good Marionette instead?
A No, the jinx prevents the Marionette from being created at all.

Q What makes the Pixie gaining an ability different from the ST gaining a Minion ability from the Plague Doctor?
  If the PD gave the ST an ability and is then swapped away, the ST keeps the ability, right?
A Pixie and PD are run differently.

  The PD dies and their reminder token is put on the side of the Grimoire indicating that the ST has gained an ability forever.
  At that point the ability the ST gains is independent from the PD ability.

  In contrast, the ability gained through the Pixie is a function of the Pixie ability and so intrinsically tied to it,
  same as the Philosopher who gains an ability loses it if they are switched to another character.

Q If the ST gains the Poisoner ability via the Plague Doctor dying to the Demon at night, do they get to use it the same night?
A No, as the Poisoner's spot in the night order will have already passed, since the Demon acts after the Poisoner.
  If the ST wants to run things differently that is fine, but they should inform their players if that is the case.
  If the PD had died during the day however then they would have gotten to use it.

Q Can the Preacher select the ST to remove their Plague Doctor granted Minion ability?
A No.

Q Can the Recluse misregistering as a Minion affect the Minion ability gained by the ST after the Plague Doctor dies?
A Yes.

Q How does the Scarlet Woman jinx with the Plague Doctor work?
A After the Plague Doctor dies, a living Minion gains the Scarlet Woman ability in addition to their own ability, and learns this.

Q How does the Spy jinx with the Plague Doctor work?
A After the Plague Doctor dies, a living Minion gains the Spy ability in addition to their own ability, and learns this.

Q What happens when the ST gains the Widow ability via the Plague Doctor?
A The ST picks one player to be permanently Widow poisoned and then informs a good player that the Widow is in play.

Q If the Plague Doctor dies in a game with no Minions (Legion / Riot) does the ST still get a Minion ability?
A Yes.

Q What happens if the Plague Doctor dies multiple times?
A The ST gains multiple abilities.

  That can happen if the PD is Barber swapped to a living player or a new one is made by the Pit-Hag.
  There is no way for the ST to lose an ability they gained.

Q Can the ST lose the ability granted by the Plague Doctor if the Minion comes into play
  or a player gains the ability (Alchemist / Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag)?
A No, the ST is allowed to duplicate in play Minion abilities.

Q What happens if all Minions on a script are in play when the Plague Doctor dies?
A The ST gains a Minion ability.

  Since the ST is allowed to duplicate an in play Minion ability what is currently in play is immaterial.

Q Why is the Plague Doctor not in the night order?
A The sober and healthy Plague Doctor triggers as soon as they die,
  permanently giving the ST an out of play Minion ability that acts at the relevant point in the night order.

Q Is a Minion's second ability, granted via a jinx after the Plague Doctor dies, affected by drunkenness, poisoning and death like their first ability?
A Yes.

Q Does a Minion with a second Minion ability, granted via a jinx after the Plague Doctor dies, keep that ability if they change character?
A Yes.

Q Does a Minion with a second Minion ability, granted via a jinx after the Plague Doctor dies,
  keep that ability if they die and are then revived (Al-Hadikhia / Shabaloth)?
A Yes.


====
=Po=
====
Q If the Po charges, is then Courtier drunk, do they retain the charge or is it expended?
A They must pick three players the following day but none of them will die, nor will anyone they choose in the next two nights 
  while the Courtier is alive, sober and healthy.
  Compare with if they charge while drunk and then become sober, then they must pick three players who do die.
  In summary:
  # At night: Charged
  # In between: Gets drunk
  # Following night: Chooses three in the night (none die)
  # Night after that: Gets to choose one kill or charge again

Q How is the Po affected by the Exorcist?
A The Exorcist picking the Po effectively pauses the Po for one night.
  If the Po charged the night before the exorcism, then the following night when they are able to wake they must pick three targets.
  If the Po did not charge prior to the exorcism then the Po has a choice to make.

  While it is true that the Po does not wake to make any kind of choice on the night that they are exorcised,
  not being able to make a choice is _not_ the same as choosing no one.
  Choosing no one is an active choice whereas not being able to choose is a forced state.
  In order to be able to triple kill the night after their exorcism,
  the Po must have actively chosen no one on the last night that they woke.

Q Can a newly created Po (Barber / Engineer/ Hatter / Pit-Hag / Summoner / ...) get a triple kill if as their last character they picked no one?
A No, their only choice is to kill no one or one player on their first night.
  Choices or lack thereof as their previous character have no effect on their current character,
  including if they believed themself to be the Lunatic Po prior to becoming the Po.

  For a triple kill, the actual Po must actively choose no one the previous night to satisfy their ability.

Q If the Po charges, are they allowed to attack fewer than three people?
A No.

  If the Po's last choice was to attack no one,
  then the next time they wake they must choose exactly three different players.

Q How is the Po affected by drunkenness and poisoning?
A The Po is woken and their choice applied,
  with drunkenness and poisoning having no effect on charging but preventing any kills.
  So the sober and healthy Po can triple kill, even if they were drunk or poisoned when they charged the previous night,
  but the drunk or poisoned Po does not kill any player that they pick.

Q If the Po figures out that they are drunk, can they refuse to use their ability?
A No, that is not allowed.

  The Courtier drunk Po who chose no one last night must still pick three players.
  They cannot shake their head.

Q The Po charges then is switched to another player (Barber / Hatter / Scarlet Woman / Snake Charmer / ...).
  Do three kills still happen?
A No. It is a new instance of the character, so a reset of the ability.

Q Can the Po charge for two nights in a row?
A No.  If the Po charged last night then tonight they must attack three players.


============
=Politician=
============
Q How can the Politician win in an Atheist game?
A If the Politician successfully makes the entire good team believe that the Atheist is evil,
  and manages to get them to execute down to final 2,
  then they can be the only player that wins in an Atheist game.

Q Can the Politician be the Good Twin to the Evil Twin?
A Yes, but don't; they will likely campaign for their own execution,
  never mentioning the Twins,
  then win the game with evil as a result - it is pretty hard to argue they were not most responsible in that situation!

Q Can the Politician campaign for their own Fearmonger-execution and win with evil?
A Yes.

  The Politician flipping alignment does not change the result of the game;
  if they are Fearmonger-executed, the evil team's win is guaranteed.
  With the result decided, the ST must now consider if the Politician was most responsible for the good team losing.

  Arguably if the Politician successfully campaigns for their execution,
  perhaps after finding out that they were targeted,
  triggers the Fearmonger ability and causes the good team to lose,
  then the Politician should flip alignment and win with evil.

Q When does the Politician flip alignment in a Heretic game?
A The Politician's changing of alignment is decided after the Heretic impacts the result of who actually won the game.

Q Does the Politician work well in a Legion game?
A It is not that fun - the Politician is incentivised to vote on literally any execution but their own
  and be the single good vote Legion needs to pass every vote  it is difficult to claim they were not the most responsible for the good team's loss.

Q Can the Politician campaign for themself to be the second good player execution in a Leviathan game and win with evil?
A Yes.

  The Politician flipping alignment does not change the result of the game;
  if they are the second execution of a good player then the evil team's win is guaranteed.
  With the result decided, if the ST then decides that the Politician was the main influence in causing their team to lose,
  then the Politician can flip alignment and win with the evil team.

Q Can the Politician campaign for their execution on a Mastermind day and win with evil?
A Yes.

  The Politician flipping alignment does not change the result of the game;
  if they are the executed then the evil team's win is guaranteed.
  With the result decided, if the ST then decides that the Politician was the main influence in causing their team to lose,
  then the Politician can flip alignment and win with the evil team.

Q Can the Politician be Mezepheles turned, learn then betray the evil team, and win with good?
A Yes,
  an evil Politician can turn good if they are the player most responsible for evil losing.

Q If the Pit-Hag turns himself into the Politician,
  could he campaign for his Demon's execution causing his team to lose, then flip alignment to win with the good team?
A No, as this exact scenario is prevented by the Pit-Hag jinx with the Politician: the Pit-Hag cannot create an evil Politician.

  The Pit-Hag role does not work great with alignment changers such as the Goon and the Cult Leader.

Q How does the Politician in a Revolutionary pair work?
A If the Politician is in a Revolutionary pair,
  it is the Politician who must be most responsible for the game end in order to potentially flip both players' alignments,
  not the pair as a duo.

Q Can the Politician turn evil in a Spirit of Ivory game which already has an additional evil?
A No.

Q What is the Politician jinx with the Vizier?
A The Politician might register as evil to the Vizier.

  This prevent an easy and unfun Politician win - if the Politician simply voted on every other good player's execution, the Vizier could then push all the executions through,
  making the Politician unarguably the most responsible for the good team losing, so they would flip to evil and win with the evil team.
  Having the Politician register as evil can be used to prevent this strategy.

----------------------------combine
Q How does it work if there is more than one Politician ability (Cannibal / Philosopher / Pixie / ...) in play?
A With multiple Politician abilities in play,
  there can be multiple players playing for the evil team.
  However, only the most responsible player can change teams, so they are in direct competition with one another.
  If any of these die while they have the Politician ability,
  they maintain the ability even if dead and can change alignments to win at the end of the game.

Q If there is more than one sober and healthy Politician ability in play (Philosopher / Cannibal) can they all change alignment and win?
A No, only one can change alignment and win.
  They are now in competition as only one player can be most responsible for their team losing. 
------------------------


==============
=Poppy Grower=
==============
Q If the Apprentice Poppy Grower is exiled, do Minions and Demons learn each other?
A Yes, as exile results in death.
  Their death via any character ability can also result in evils learning each other.

Q Does the Bone Collector picking the Poppy Grower who was executed the previous day prevent the Minions and Demons from learning each other?
A No, as the info would have gone out before the Bone Collector got to use their ability.

Q What happens when the Cannibal Poppy Grower is the last living instance of the Poppy Grower ability
  but they lose their ability not when they die but when someone else is executed?
A Evil will never learn each other.  The Poppy Grower ability requires them to actively die to give the evil team information.

Q Do the Twins still learn each other in a Poppy Grower game?
A Yes.

Q How is a Legion/Riot game run when the Poppy Grower is in play?
A Legion/Riot players do not learn who the other Legion/Riot players are,
  and are woken individually to learn three out of play characters.

Q What happens when the Lleech poisons the Poppy Grower?
A The PG is the poisoned host and unless evil can shift this (Barber / Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / ...)
  then evil will not be able to kill the PG without losing and so will never learn each other.

Q Does the Poppy Grower prevent the Demon from learning who the King and the Lunatic are?
A No.

Q What is the Poppy Grower jinx with the Marionette?
A When the Poppy Grower dies, the Demon learns the Marionette but the Marionette learns nothing.

Q Does the Demon learn the Marionette in a Poppy Grower game on N1?
A No, assuming a sober and healthy PG ability.

Q A character with the Poppy Grower ability dies and the Minions and the Demon do not learn each other because of another Poppy Grower ability 
  (Apprentice / Cannibal / Philosopher / Pixie / Poppy Grower / ...) in play.
  Is the Mathematician pinged?
A Yes.  A player with the Poppy Grower ability dying and failing to giving the Minions and the Demon any info
  due to another Poppy Grower ability in the game is working abnormally due to another character.
  The Mathematician would also be pinged if the PG died while drunk or poisonedk.
  
  Note that this is only ever registers as a +1 since Minions and Demons only gain info via their character types, not their abilities.

Q What happens if in a Poppy Grower game the Pit-Hag turns their Demon into a non-Demon?
A If there is no Demon in the game and nothing else to keep it going, such as the Evil Twin, then the game just ends with good winning.

Q Do preached Minions learn their team after the Poppy Grower dies?
A Yes, they may not have an ability but they are still Minions.

Q Could the Recluse be woken with the Minions and the Demon when the Poppy Grower dies?
A Yes, but don't.

Q If the Snake Charmer succeeds in becoming the new Demon and the Poppy Grower later dies,
  will the evil team learn the old Demon or the new Demon?
A New Demon; the old Demon is no longer a Demon so would not be in any info.

Q How is the Snitch ability run in a Poppy Grower game?
A Each Minion is woken individually and shown three out of player characters.

Q According to the jinx, neither the Spy nor the Widow see the Grimoire until the Poppy Grower dies.
  What if there is another Poppy Grower ability in the game?
A The Spy and the Widow see the Grimoire when the last player with the Poppy Grower ability (Apprentice / Cannibal / Philosopher / Pixie / ...) dies.

Q Do Townsfolk or Outsiders turned evil (Bounty Hunter / Cult Leader / Goon / Mezepheles / ...) or evil Travellers learn the evil team when the Poppy Grower dies?
A No, only Minions and Demons learn each other.

Q If the Poppy Grower is swapped out of the game (Farmer / Pit-Hag / Summoner / ...), do evil learn each other?
A No, the Poppy Grower must die for evil to learn each other.

Q How does the Poppy Grower interact with drunkenness and poisoning?
A This depends on the timing, since there are two parts to the Poppy Grower's ability:
  # the N1 suppression of information;
  # their death triggering Minions and Demons learning each other.

  On N1 the Poppy Grower acts early in the night,
  so for drunkenness / poisoning to have any effect the Poppy Grower would need to _start_ the game drunk or poisoned via a setup effect such as:
  * neighbourng the No Dashii;
  * Puzzlemaster drunkenness;
  * being _the_ Drunk.

  Any of these causes would mean that the regular Minion and Demon info steps are performed
  while other sources of drunkenness and poisoning act after the Poppy Grower so will not impact her ability.

  After N1
  drunkenness and poisoning benefits the good team
  since it deactivates the second part of the Poppy Grower ability:
  if the Poppy Grower dies while drunk or poisoned,
  the evil team never learns each other.
  Note that the Poppy Grower's death is still the trigger here: 
  if the Poppy Grower does not die then any drunkenness or poisoning is irrelevant.

Q If there is a dead Demon and a living Demon (Fang Gu / Imp / Legion / Riot / Scarlet Woman /...) what is shown if the Poppy Grower dies? 
A All Minions learn every Demon, and all Demons learn of every Minion, regardless of living status.

Q If the Poppy Grower dies while drunk or poisoned, do the evil team learn each other?
A No.

Q If a sober and healthy player with the Poppy Grower ability dies do evils immediately learn each other?
A Yes, unless there is another active Poppy Grower ability in play,
  in which case evils will only learn each other when the last player with the PG ability dies while sober and healthy.
  This is because the next PG ability would immediately take effect after the old one ends,
  with no gap in between the two wherein evils would be able to learn each other.

  Evils do not learn each other when, for example:
  * the Cannibal eats the Poppy Grower,
  * the Pixie has fulfilled their madness condition,
  * it was the Philosopher Poppy Grower who died resulting in the PG immediately becoming sober.

-------------------------combine
Q If the Demon kills the Poppy Grower at night, when does the evil team learn each other?
A As soon as possible.

Q If the Poppy Grower dies to the Demon at night (past the Poppy Grower's night order), does the evil team have to wait until the next night to learn their teammates?
A The evil team learn each other at the first opportunity after the PG dies. 
  If she is executed, that is the start of the night; if she dies at night, it is immediately after that death.
---------------------------

Q If the Poppy Grower is resurrected / regurgitated (Al-Hadikhia / Professor / Shabaloth) then dies again,
  could the evil team potentially learn each other again?
A Yes.

Q Does the Poppy Grower prevent an evil Traveller from learning the Demon?
A No, they learn the Demon as normal.
  This includes an evil Apprentice with a Minion ability.

Q Who gains info when the Poppy Grower dies?
A When the last player with a PG ability dies while sober and healthy,
  all players that are currently a Minion or a Demon wake up to learn each other, regardless of their alignment and living status.

  Ex-Minions and Demons are not invited.

Q Do evil learn each other if the Poppy Grower is swapped to a dead player with the Barber ability?
A No, the Poppy Grower must die for the ability to trigger.
  Being swapped to a dead player just causes the ability to be lost.


==========
=Preacher=
==========
Q Is the Alchemist or the Apprentice with a Minion ability affected by the Preacher?
A No, the Preacher only affects Minions.

Q What happens if the Magician is selected by the Preacher?
A They are unaffected.  The Magician's ability does not make them register as a Minion, it just makes the Demon think that they are a Minion.

Q Can the ST be preached if the Plague Doctor is on the script?
A No.  Also the ST is not a Minion so would not lose the ability anyway.

Q Can the Recluse misregister as a Minion if chosen by the Preacher and learn that they were preached?
A Yes, but the ST should probably not do this.
  The Recluse still keeps their ability,
  since if they lose it they cease to register as a Minion,
  which means the reminder token should be removed and therefore they are no longer preached so their ability is returned.

Q Can the Spy misregister as a Townsfolk or an Outsider when selected by the Preacher and avoid being preached?
A Yes.

Q Can the Preacher cause Vigormortis killed Minions to lose their ability?
A Yes, if the Preacher chooses a Vigor killed Minion, then the dead Minion loses their ability, but one of their neighbouring Townsfolk remains poisoned.
  Similarly, if a preached Minion becomes Vigor killed, then the Minion is dead and still without an ability and starts poisoning a Townsfolk neighbour.
  
  Should the Preacher die or become drunk or poisoned,
  then any Vigor killed Minions who had been preached before or after their death regain their ability.

Q Does a preached Minion who dies and is then resurrected (Al-Hadikhia / Shabaloth) regain their ability?
A No, they did not stop being a Minion when they died, and they are still preached provided the Preacher is still alive
  (the Preacher's reminder token would still be next to them in the Grimoire).
  
  In contrast, resurrecting the Preacher (Al-Hadikhia / Professor / Shabaloth) does not cause Minions to lose their ability again;
  as a fresh instance of the Preacher they must start their preaching over
  (when the Preacher originally died the ST would have removed their reminder tokens from the Grimoire).

-----------------combine
Q If a Preacher targeted Minion later becomes a different Minion (Barber / Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / ...), are they still preached and without an ability?
A Yes.  As long as they are an uninterrupted Minion, even if they change Minion type, they would still be preached. This is similar to Vigormortis in that sense.

Q If a preached Minion becomes another Minion (Barber / Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / ...) do they lose their preached status?
A No, a preached Minion remains preached so long as they are a Minion.
  They are informed of their new ability as per standard games rules but do not get to use it while the Preacher is alive, sober and healthy.

  If they are switched to a non-Minion they would no longer be preached,
  and would remain unpreached if they later became a Minion again, so would have the use of their ability.
  That is, until the Preacher picks them again.

Q If a preached Minion becomes a different character type, say a Demon, and then becomes a Minion again, will they still be preached?
A No.  The moment they stop being a Minion, the preached effect ends on them and does not ever return unless the Preacher chooses them again when they turn back.
-------------------------

Q Can the ST gain the ability of a preached Minion when the Plague Doctor dies?
A No, the ability may not be functioning at the moment but it is still in play.

Q Does the Preacher dying giving the Minions a new instance of their ability, such as giving an Assassin another kill?
A No, this is not a new instance of the ability; their ability is simply reactivating.

Q If the Preacher selects a Minion (say Devil's Advocate) and the Demon kills the Preacher the same night, should the DA's ability work that night?
A No.  The DA is woken before the Demon kills so the DA must wait to the following night to use their ability.

===========combine
Q If the Plague Doctor gives a Minion a second ability, what happens when the Preacher preaches them?
A The Minion cannot use either ability while the Plague Doctor is alive, sober or healthy.

  The Preacher states that chosen Minions have no ability, so they lose both their native ability and the ability they gained from the Plague Doctor.
  The Preacher's ability is also stated in the present tense, so it is an ongoing effect,
  meaning that if a Minion is preached and then given an ability by the Plague Doctor, 
  they are still preached and still have no ability.

Q If a preached Minion gain another Minion ability from the Plague Doctor, is that ability also suppressed?
A Yes.  They would still gain the second ability, but both abilities are suppressed while the Preacher is alive, healthy or sober.
======================

Q Can good Minions be preached?
A Yes, alignment is not relevant; good Minions are affected the same as evil ones if preached.

Q Do preached Minions regain their ability when the Preacher dies?
A Yes.  The Preacher does not have a while dead ability, so it is lost; all their reminder tokens are removed from the Grimoire, and the Minions regain their abilities.
  Note that any spent one use abilities (Assassin / Mezepheles / ...) are not refreshed, they stay spent.

  If the Preacher is alive but drunk or poisoined, then preached Minions temporarily regain their abilities;
  the ST can indicate this by turning the Preacher's reminder tokens upside-down in the meantime.

Q Does a dead Minion learn that they have been preached?
A Yes, this is part of the Preacher's ability and even while dead a Minion is still a Minion.


===========
=Professor=
===========
Q The Moonchild dies and chooses the Professor.
  As the Professor acts earlier in the night order than the Moonchild, could the Professor resurrect a player before the Moonchild kill goes through?
A Yes.

Q Can the Professor resurrect a Townsfolk turned evil (Mezepheles / Bounty Hunter / ...)?
A Yes.

Q If there are three people alive going into night, Demon kills one of them (two people alive), and then the Professor resurrects one (three people alive), does evil win?
A Evil won the moment there were only two people alive, which was immediately after the Demon chose a kill.
  The Professor does not get to act that night because the game was over already.

Q How is the Professor run if there are no dead players?
A Exactly the same as when there _are_ dead players.

  They are still woken, because this is important for characters such as the Chambermaid, and prompted to use their ability as usual.
  They are not told that no one is dead at their point in the night order as this would be giving them too much information,
  so they would presumably shake their head and go back to sleep.
  They might try to choose the player that they think died tonight,
  but to no avail because no one is dead,
  and after a couple of attempts they should be put back to sleep to prevent them from fishing.

Q If the Professor picks an alive player, is their ability spent?
A No, the ST shakes their head to say that they should pick again,
  however if they are just trying to see if others are dead or living, then they should just be put to sleep after a couple of picks.

Q If someone is resurrected before the Professor wakes, and if the Professor tries to resurrect them (thinking they are still dead), is the Professor's ability lost?
A No as it would still be an invalid target. The ST should shake their head and prompt the player to pick again.

Q Can the Professor pick a player who died that night?
A Yes.

  Many STs will not allow the Professor to fish in that way and would put them back to sleep after a couple of attempts at picking alive players.
  If they manage to hit a player who went to sleep alive and died that same night,
  then the player is resurrected and the Professor's ability is used,
  but nothing is announced since Town went to sleep with that player alive and woke up with that player alive,
  and only visible changes to a player's life status are announced.


============
=Psychopath=
============
Q If the Alchemist Cerenovus chooses the Psychopath, and the Psychopath player breaks madness by choosing to kill the Alchemist, what happens? 
A The ST can choose to execute the Psychopath before the kill goes through or not.
  The Psychopath does not cause an instantaneous kill, as she must first publicly claim the ability and then choose a player,
  and could be executed mid-sentence.
  If the ST does execute for the madness break then the Psychopath and ST will play roshambo to see if the Psychopath dies.

Q If the Psychopath is executed for breaking Cerenovus madness who do they play roshambo against? 
A The ST.

Q What happens if the Alchemist Psychopath is the first to nominate the Virgin?
A They are executed and play roshambo with the ST.

  Should the actual Psychopath who also has the Spy ability granted via the Plague Doctor be the first to nominate the Virgin,
  then they could also potentially trigger the Virgin's ability and would likewise play roshambo with the ST!
  Although it might be more fun to have them play against the Virgin instead.

Q If the Psychopath is protected by the Devil's Advocate do they still play roshambo? /
  Does the Alchemist Psychopath protected by the Tea Lady or Pacifist still play roshambo?
A Yes, outed or otherwise they still play as there is nothing about the those protective abilities to prevent this.
  And it is only if the Psychopath loses and does not die that the good team discovers that they were protected.

Q Does the Innkeeper / Lycanthrope / Mayor / Monk prevent Psychopath deaths?
A No, those abilities only protect from death at night.

Q What happens when the Judge forces the execution on the Psychopath?
A They are executed and play roshambo with their nominator to find out if they die.

Q What happens when the Klutz / Moonchild are killed by the Psychopath?
A They learn about their death straightaway and must pick another player with their ability that same day.

Q Does executing the Psychopath trigger the Minstrel's ability?
A Only if the Psychopath loses roshambo since a Minion must die to execution to trigger the Minstrel.

Q Can the Psychopath bluff as the Slayer and still kill their target?
A No, they must publicly claim Psychopath.
  Should they state that they are either the Psychopath or the Slayer and choose player X, they must be prompted to specify which of the two they are actually claiming.
  Generally, there is no clever way for the Pyschopath to get around having to claim Psychopath to get their kill.

  Even the Alchemist Psychopath must still claim Psychopath;
  they can tell town that they are the Alchemist,
  but that is not something that they can mechanically claim.

-----------------------combine
Q What happens when the corpse of the Vigormortis-killed Psychopath is executed?
A They play roshambo, even though the result does not matter, since dead players do not die.
  It does at least prove the Demon is the Vigormortis, not the Vortox.
  
Q How do the Psychopath and the Vigormortis interact?
A The Psychopath keeps their ability if killed by the Vigormortis.
  So they can still name a player before nominations to die, and if their corpse is executed,
  they play roshambo with their nominator.
  There is no reason for town to nominate their body or to play roshambo since they are already dead and cannot die again regardless of the result, but it would be amusing.
----------------------------------------

Q The Vizier forces the execution of the Psychopath. Do they play roshambo?
A The Psychopath and their nominator will play roshambo.

Q What happens if the Psychopath kills the Zombuul?
A If this is the Zombuul's first death they now register as dead, and do not wake tonight to kill as their death counts for their ability.
  Since the Psychopath can attack dead players the registering as dead Zombuul could be killed by the Psychopath a second time.

Q If a player is bluffing as the Psychopath and is executed, can they pretend to play roshambo with their nominator?
A No, they are not the Psychopath so do not have the ability that allows them to play roshambo.

Q When can the Psychopath choose to kill someone?
A Each day before nominations begin.  They could kill as soon as the day starts if they wished.
  The Psychopath should not be allowed to interrupt an action such as the ST privately giving a player any information.

Q If the Psychopath self-nominates, who do they play roshambo with?
A The ST.

Q What happens if the drunk or poisoned Psychopath is executed?
A They die without playing roshambo, since mechanical effects do not happen while drunk or poisoned.

Q If the Psychopath who never claimed to be the Psychopath is executed, do they still play roshambo?
A Yes, with whomever nominated them.
  This then obviously outs them as the Psychopath.

Q If the Psychopath never claims that they are the Psychopath and are nominated, are they announced?
A No, the ST does not directly state that they are the Psychopath.
  If they are executed then they play roshambo with their nominator, so it will be pretty obvious what they are.

Q Can the drunk or poisoned Psychopath kill anyone?
A No, drunk or poisoned characters have no ability.

Q Could more than one evil player simulataneously claim Psychopath and target the same player to obfuscate the actual Psychopath?
A No.

  The Psychopath is not designed to hide after they have killed.
  The ST should process public claims and actions clearly in order to avoid any shenanigans,
  so that it would be abundantly clear which claim results in the death of the player.

Q What happens when the Psychopath attacks a player who cannot die?
A Town are not given any confirmation that the Psychopath claim is real.

  Any player can claim that they are the Pyschopath when they are not and the result is indistinguishable from the actual Psychopath failing to kill their target.

Q Can the Psychopath kill the ST?
A No; the ST is not a player.


=======
=Pukka=
=======
Q If the Pukka is chosen by the Exorcist does the previously poisoned player still die?
A Yes.  The effect of the exorcism is to delay the Pukka's next kill.

  The Exorcist only stops the Demon to wake to use their ability,
  but any other part of their ability still works.

  In this case, the Exorcist causes the Pukka to not wake to choose a player, 
  but she does not need to wake for the previously poisoned person to die then become healthy; that is a separate part of the ability.
  Additionally, the Pukka not waking to poison a player tonight pings the Mathematician.

  The next night, the Pukka wakes as normal to poison a player and no one dies as the previously poisoned player is already dead.

Q Can the Pukka poisoned Fool die even if she has yet to use her ability?
A If the Fool is poisoned, then she does not have her ability, so she will die the first time she is killed.
  The same goes for the Sailor.

Q If the Lycanthrope picks a good player but is then Pukka poisoned that night, can there be a Pukka kill tonight?
A Yes, the Lycanthrope pick and the previous night's Pukka pick since the Lycanthrope protection is now poisoned.

Q If the Pukka attacks the Mayor, does the poison stop a Mayor bounce?
A Yes.

  The Mayor cannot bounce the poison, only the kill,
  and cannot do so while poisoned
  so the Mayor just dies to the Pukka.

Q In order to not die to the Pukka, does a player need to be Monk protected the night they are picked by the Pukka or the following night when they would die?
A Either.

  If they are protected the first night when they would be poisoned,
  then the Pukka poison is never applied, so there is no "previously poisoned player" the following night, so no Demon kill.

  If instead they are protected the following night,
  then the effects of the Pukka poison are suspended but not removed,
  and at the Pukka's turn in the night order,
  if the Monk protection is still active,
  the protected player does not die and becomes healthy.
  (This is similar to how the Monk protecting the Lleech host does not remove the Lleech's host effect but the host is temporarily healthy.
  Physically, the ST places the Monk's safe reminder token leaving the Pukka's poison reminder token where it is.)

  The Pukka's target does not need to be protected on both nights:
  if they were protected on the first night, then the Monk is free to protect someone else the following night.
  From the Monk's perspective they have two good targets available to them,
  the player targeted the night before or the one targeted tonight.
  The Monk is super strong in a Pukka game.

Q If the Monk-protected player is picked by the Pukka, are they poisoned that night?
A No (the ST does not place the Pukka poison token next to them), and they do not die the following night.

Q If the Monk-protected player is picked by the Pukka, do they still die the next night?
A No, nor are they Pukka poisoned the night they are picked.

Q If the Monk protects a player who was Pukka poisoned on the previous night, even though that player was the "previously poisoned player", they will not die tonight, right?
A Correct.  The player does not die and becomes healthy.

Q N1 player X is Pukka poisoned. N2 the Monk protects player X but is then later targeted by the Pukka. What happens to player X?
A They die.

  Player X is no longer poisoned while Monk protected, but when the Monk becomes poisoned, the protection is removed.
  As player X is still the previously poisoned player, they die.

Q If the Monk-protected player is picked by the Pukka, they are not poisoned and do not die the next night, but does the Pukka's previous pick still die tonight?
A Yes.

Q Does a Pukka poisoned player resurrected by the Professor come back to life poisoned?
A No.

  After a player dies to the Pukka they become healthy, after any on death triggers have activated,
  so if they are revived they come back healthy.

Q If the Pukka passes to another player (Hatter / Scarlet Woman / Barber / ...), is the previously poisoned player still poisoned and scheduled to die?
A No. As a new instance of the Pukka, the ability resets, so their victim immediately becomes healthy.

Q If the Pukka dies and the game continues (Evil Twin / Mastermind / ...) does the previously poisoned player still die?
A No, killing the Pukka completely removes their ability from play: the victim immediately becomes healthy and does not die.

  In contrast, when the Pukka is drunk or poisoned, the poison stays in play, killing the player when the Pukka is sober and healthy.

Q What happens when the Pukka chooses while drunk or poisoned?
A If the Pukka is drunk or poisoned when they pick at night then:
  # the player who already has the poisoned token is temporarily healthy (some STs choose not to remove the token entirely to help them remember; some turn it upside down);
  # no new token is placed down.

  On the next night when the Pukka is both sober and healthy:
  # the previously poisoned player is re-poisoned;
  # the Pukka's choice will now cause a new poisoned token to be placed down;
  # the previously poisoned player dies, then becomes healthy.

Q If the Pukka is drunk or poisoned when does the previously poisoned player die?
A When the Pukka becomes sober and healthy.
  Until then the previously poisoned player is temporarily healthy, which the ST can indicate by turning the poison reminder token upside-down.

Q If the Pukka becomes another Demon (Pit-Hag / Hatter / Engineer / ...), what happens to the previously poisoned player?
A They are immediately no longer poisoned and will not die tonight.

Q What happens when the Pukka kills a character at night with an ability that acts on death (Banshee / Barber / Farmer / Hatter / Plague Doctor / Ravenkeeper / Sage / Sweetheart / ...)?
A Their ability does not trigger.

  The Pukka's kills always die poisoned.
  This is what allows the Pukka to kill characters such as the Fool, Mayor or Sailor, who might otherwise survive thanks to their own ability.

  But dying poisoned also means that effects which trigger upon death are disabled meaning for example that:
  * the Pukka is not offered the Barber swap when the Barber dies
  * a good player does not become drunk when the Sweetheart dies
  * the ST does not get an out of play Minion ability when the Plague Doctor dies
  * the evil players do not get to switch their roles when the Hatter dies
  * the evil team do not learn each other when the Poppy Grower dies
  
  But while those were all bad for team evil, consider:
  * the Banshee does not wake
  * the Farmer does not create another Farmer
  * the Sage can be told two non-Demon players
  * the Ravenkeeper may be given false info

Q What happens when the Pukka picks herself?
A Nothing good for the Pukka:
  * As soon as she picks herself she is permanently poisoned for the rest of the game, so she cannot kill anyone, including herself.
  * The previously poisoned player, if there is one, is immediately healthy, and does not die.
  * If she somehow became healthy on a later night then, as the previously poisoned player, she would die.

Q In a Pukka game, does the previously poisoned player still become healthy if they cannot die due to protection (Monk / Innkeeper/ Tea Lady)?
A Yes.  The player's dying and becoming healthy are two separate events, one does not rely on the other; if anything prevents them from dying, they still become healthy.

Q How does the Pukka interact with the Lycanthrope's protection?
A This depends on who the Lycan and the Pukka pick each night.
  Note that the Pukka still poisons a player every night after the Lycan pick.

  On any night when the Lycan successfully kills a good player,
  and they are not made subsequently drunk or poisoned,
  the Lycan protection is in effect:
  after the Pukka picks another player to poison, the previously poisoned player cannot die, and they become healthy.

  On a night that the Lycan kills a good player and the Pukka then happens to pick the Lycan to poison,
  the Lycan's protection is immediately removed,
  so the previously picked player dies, and they become healthy.
  The Lycan is now scheduled to die tomorrow.
  
  Any night when the Lycanthrope does not successfully kill,
  because they are drunk or poisoned or they attacked a player who is evil or protected,
  there is no Lycan protection so the Pukka functions normally:
  after they pick another player to poison, the previously poisoned player dies, then becomes healthy.


==============
=Puzzlemaster=
==============
Q If the Puzzlemaster guesses incorrectly in a game with the Summoner on the script but out of play,
  can they legally be told that nobody is the Demon?
A Yes.  After N3 this should not be done else they would know the player picked is not Puzzlemaster-drunk.

Q Does the Puzzlemaster that guessed wrong in a Vortox game get the correct Demon?
A No, the Puzzlemaster is an Outsider so their info is unaffected by the Vortox.

  If the Puzzlemaster successfully guesses the correct drunk player then they learn the Vortox.

Q If a dead player becomes the Puzzlemaster (Barber / Pit-Hag), is a player made Puzzlemaster-drunk?
A No.
  Their ability reads "one player is drunk, even if you die", rather than "even if you are dead",
  so the Puzzlemaster does not start making someone drunk if they enter play while already dead.
  The Puzzlemaster must be alive to drunk a player and when they die continue to drunk that player,
  which prevents the Puzzlemaster from just getting themself killed early to stop making a teammate drunk.

Q Can the Puzzlemaster guess any drunk player?
A No, they must specifically choose the player drunk from their ability.

Q If the Puzzlemaster becomes a different character, is the Puzzlemaster-drunkenness removed from game?
A Yes.

Q If the Puzzlemaster's target changes character (Barber / Pit-Hag / ...), is that player still drunk?
A Yes.  For as long as the Puzzlemaster is in the game and sober and healthy, the picked player is drunk, even if that player changes character.

Q Could the Puzzlemaster make a character in a hate jinx pair drunk, allowing the other character to enter play?
A No. Hate jinxes are a part of setup whereas the Puzzlemaster has no setup ability; the Puzzlemaster-drunk player is decided after tokens have been distributed.
  So pairs of hate jinxed characters still cannot be placed in the token bag in a Puzzlemaster game.

  On the other hand, if one of the hate jinxed pair is _the_ Drunk then both characters can be put in the token bag,
  as then only one of the characters is technically in play.

Q When does the Puzzlemaster guess?
A During the day, either publicly or privately.

-----------------combine?
Q Can the Puzzlemaster drunkenness stop:
  * the Bounty Hunter turning a Townsfolk evil 
  * the Balloonist adding an extra Outsider?
A No, [setup effects] always happen before any other start of game effects such as the Puzzlemaster drunkenness or the Poppy Grower's suppression of information.
  This means that the Balloonist's [+1 Outsider] and the Bounty Hunter's [1 Townsfolk is evil] happen before tokens are distributed.

  Although the Puzzlemaster cannot stop their setup effects, the corresponding characters can still be made Puzzlemaster drunk afterwards.

Q If a character is drunk because of the Puzzlemaster, are their [setup abilities] in effect?
A Yes.

  The reminder token is placed on N1,
  after tokens are sent out and [setup abilities] have already resolved,
  so that is when the drunkenness starts.
-------------------------------

Q What happens if the Puzzlemaster guesses their drunk player but there is no Demon in the game?
A They are shown no one.

  This situation can happen when:
  * the Pit-Hag swaps out the only Demon from the game, and the game continues because both of the Twins are alive;
  * the Summoner has yet to create a Demon.

Q What happens if the Puzzlemaster guesses their drunk player but there is no living Demon in the game?
A The ST shows a dead Demon.

  This situation could happen on a Mastermind day, or when the game continues because both of the Twins are alive.

Q If the Puzzlemaster is drunk or poisoned, what happens?
A Their ability does not work,
  so the player they have made drunk is temporarily sober:  the ST can indicate this by turning the Puzzlemaster drunk reminder token upside down.
  Once the Puzzlemaster is sober and healthy, their ability resumes making their target drunk.

  If the Puzzlemaster makes a guess while drunk or poisoned, then regardless of the accuracy of the guess the ST can tell them any player.
  The ST could even show them the Demon
  perhaps reasoning that the Puzzlemaster will discredit their own info or that they are deliberately burning their guess to eliminate Demon candidates.

Q If the Puzzlemaster is created mid game, does the ST immediately make someone Puzzlemaster-drunk?
A Yes, assuming the Puzzlemaster player is alive, sober and healthy.

Q If the Puzzlemaster is resurrected (Al-Hadikhia / Shabaloth) what happens?
A As a fresh instance of the Puzzlemaster,
  the drunkenness can move to another player and the Puzzlemaster can also make a fresh guess.

Q Could the Puzzlemaster who guesses correctly learn the Recluse?
A Yes.


=========
=Recluse=
=========
Q Could the Recluse misregister as a Minion or a Demon if picked by the Courtier to avoid being drunk?
A Yes, but don't.

Q Can the Recluse be told that there is a Damsel?
A Yes, but don't.

Q Can the Recluse, registering as a Minion, successfully guess the Damsel?
A Yes, ending the game, so it is probably a bad idea for the Recluse to make Damsel guesses.

  The Recluse could also learn the Damsel is in play if they register as a Minion at any time,
  but it is generally not the point of Outsiders that they can be hard-confirmed to other players, so do not do this.

Q Can the Recluse register as evil when the Farmer dies at night?
A Yes, which could be fun if the Recluse is the only living good player left in the game.

Q Could the Recluse become the Demon if the Imp self-kills?
A Yes, but don't.

  This makes the Recluse into the good Imp,
  meaning that they need only to get themself killed in order to win.
  If all the actual Minions are dead
  then the ST could do this to keep the game going,
  but this is still not recommended.

Q Can the Recluse registering as the Demon learn the King?
A Yes, but don't.

Q If the Recluse dies, could they misregister as a Demon and trigger the Scarlet Woman?
A Yes, but don't.

  Since the SW's ability explicitly says "you become the Demon.",
  they would become whatever Demon the ST registers the Recluse as, but they would never become a Recluse.

Q If the Demon dies, could the Recluse registering as the Scarlet Woman become a good Demon?
A No, registering as a character does not give the player that character's ability, so they do not actually have the Scarlet Woman's ability.
  However:
  * if the Demon is a self-killing Imp then the Recluse registering as any Minion can become a good Imp;
  * if the Recluse dies the Scarlet Woman can become the Demon.

Q What happens when the Snake Charmer picks the Recluse?
A This will depend on what the Recluse registers as.

  If the Recluse misregisters to the Snake Charmer as a Demon,
  then they could swap,
  with the SC becoming whatever Demon on the script the Recluse registered as
  and the Recluse becoming the self-poisoning SC.
  Both players should be woken to learn their new character.

  Since the SC ability causes alignments to be swapped
  then whether the new Demon is good or evil would also depend on if the Recluse registered to the SC as good or evil.
  Players always learn if their alignment changes so the SC would learn their new alignment if it changed.
  The Recluse would not learn anything about their alignment,
  since it will not have changed,
  unless for some reason the previous SC was already evil.

  The SC will probably believe that they hit the Demon while the Recluse will not be sure what happened,
  especially if there are characters that can cause players to change character on the script,
  such as the Barber and the Pit-Hag.

  If the Recluse instead misregistered as a Minion or perhaps registered as who they actually are
  then none of this happens.

Q If the Snake Charmer is turned into the Recluse (Barber / Pit-Hag / ...),
  is the ST allowed to deceive the former SC into believing that they are an evil Demon,
  using the Recluse's register as a Demon ability?
A No.

  The ST is not allowed to lie to the player about their character or alignment unless the ability allows for that.
  The Recluse does not believe they are anything else; they always know that they are the Recluse.
  This is contrast to the Drunk or the Lunatic whose abilities specify that they believe they are something else.

Q Can the Recluse register as the Spy and trigger the Virgin?
A No.

  The Recluse only registers as the Spy, but does not gain the Spy ability, therefore cannot register as a Townsfolk.
  
  Think of registering as: if an ability "asks" a player about their character or alignment or living status, they can "answer" with something other than what they are.
  Misregistering can never change the game directly (like executing someone).
  It can however trick someone else's ability into doing it for them,
  like the Spy who nominates the Virgin - the Spy's ability cannot kill themself, but it can trick the Virgin's ability into thinking they are a Townsfolk,
  after which the Virgin's real ability can execute them.

Q Is it legal to show the Recluse to the Demon as a Minion?
A Yes, but don't, as that would be an Outsider ability hurting evil.

Q Can the Recluse register as a good Minion/Demon?
A Yes.

Q Can the Recluse register as evil at the end of the game and win with evil?
A No.

Q Can the Recluse register as evil to themself? 
A No. 

  Players must always know their alignment, with the exception of the Lunatic and the Marionette who the ST is allowed to deceive,
  and registering as evil is not the same thing as being evil.

Q Can the Recluse register as the only living Demon in play, preventing the game from ending?
A Yes, but don't.

Q Can the drunk or poisoned Recluse still misregister?
A No, misregistration is part of their ability and that cannot function while they were drunk or poisoned.
  Any alignment checking abilities must learn them as good and any character checking abilities must learn them as the Recluse.

Q Can the Recluse register as evil to prevent another player turning evil in a Spirit of Ivory game?
A No.

  The concensus is that Fabled characters are unaffected by misregistration,
  so the Recluse could not be used in this way.


===============
=Revolutionary=
===============
Q Can the Bounty Hunter turn a Townsfolk player who is in a Revolutionary pair?
A Revolutionary pairs are decided at setup, the same time as the Bounty Hunter evil Townsfolk.
  As such, if the two players in the pair are good, then neither of them can become the Bounty Hunter evil Townsfolk.
  However, the ST could pair the evil Townsfolk with a Minion or the Demon.

Q Can the Bounty Hunter incorrectly learn a good player in a Revolutionary pair who registers falsely?
A Yes.

Q Could the Revolutionary cause the Damsel to register falsely as another character when guessed by a Minion?
A Yes, but don't.  This would be the ST denying the evil team a win.

Q Could the Revolutionary cause a good player to register falsely as a Minion when they accuse someone of being the Damsel?
A Yes, but don't.  This would be the ST choosing the winning team.

Q Could the Fortune Teller learn a no if they select the Demon in a revolutionary pair?
A Yes, the Demon can register falsely if they are in a Revolutionary pair.
  If they were then checked a second time the FT would receive a yes,
  since a player in a Revolutionary pair can only misregister once per game.

Q Can a Traveller and a non-Traveller sat together be a Revolutionary pair?
A Yes, assuming both are present at the start of the game.

Q What happens if an alignment changing ability (Cult Leader / Fang Gu / Mezepheles / Snake Charmer / ...) targets a player in a Revolutionary pair?
A This is a matter of ST judgement: it either has no effect and both players stay their current alignment, or both players change alignment.

Q How does a Revolutionary pair work if the first half draws the Lunatic?
A The other person is given any good character.  The Lunatic player will probably figure it out immediately.


======
=Riot=
======
Q In a Riot game, how many players can the Balloonist learn?
A Up to three, as there should not be any Minions in a Riot game.
  So they should get one Townsfolk, one Outsider and one Riot if they survive for long enough.

Q How does the Banshee work in a Riot game?
A As per the jinx, if a Riot player nominates and kills the Banshee,
  all players learn that the Banshee has died, and the Banshee may nominate two players immediately.

Q Does the Barista have any effect on Riot?
A There is no effect on Riot from a Barista 1, while a Barista 2 means that nominees die twice if possible, so one nomination could kill the Fool.
  Note this does not have to be the Barista-doubled Riot that nominates the Fool, any player nominating a Fool with a Barista-doubled Riot in play would kill them twice.

Q What is the Riot jinx with the Butler?
A The Butler can not nominate their master.

Q What is the Riot jinx with the Cannibal?
A Players that die by nomination register as being executed to the Cannibal.
  Therefore the Cannibal gains the ability of the last player to die to nomination that day.

Q What does the Clockmaker learn in a Riot game?
A Since Riot registers as a Minion to the Clockmaker, they learn the smallest gap.

Q How does the Damsel work in a Riot game?
A As per the jinx, Riot registers as a Minion to the Damsel.
  So all Riot are told about the Damsel being in play and any Riot may claim to be a Minion and guess who the Damsel is.

Q What is the Riot jinx with the Farmer?
A If a Riot player nominates and kills a Farmer, the Farmer uses their ability tonight.

Q What happens if the unspent Fool is nominated in a Riot game?
A It uses their first death and, even though they did not die, they are still given three seconds to nominate again.

Q In a Riot game the Golem nominates a player who dies.
  When the Golem later dies to another player's nomination, can the Golem nominate?
A Yes, as the Golem no longer has an ability that prevents them from nominating.

Q The Golem nominates a Riot player who does not die.  Does the Riot player get to nominate?
A Based on how Soldier is explained, players who do not die do not have to nominate but can.

Q The Golem is alive in a Riot game and has already used their nomination.  What happens on D3 if they are nominated?
A The Riot ability forces them to nominate again.  There is no issue with them being the Golem as they would be already dead at that point and have no ability.

  It is while the Golem is alive that their ability would prevent them from killing a Riot player.

Q How does the Grandmother work in a Riot game?
A If a Riot player nominates and kills the grandchild, the Grandmother dies too.

Q What is the Hatter jinx with Riot?
A If the Hatter dies in a Riot game, and a Riot chooses a different Demon, a normal evil team is created from the Riot players.

  If the Hatter dies and the Demon chooses Riot, the Minions become Riot too.

Q What is the Riot jinx with the Innkeeper?
A If a Riot player nominates an Innkeeper protected player, the Innkeeper protected player does not die.

Q What can the Investigator see in a Riot game?
A The Investigator jinx with Riot is that Riot registers as a Minion to the Investigator.
  So an Investigator is woken on their first night and shown two players, at least one of whom is Riot, and any Minion token.

Q How does the King work in a Riot game?
A All Riot players register as Demons so they all learn who the King is. 
  Additionally there is a jinx: if a Riot player nominates and kills the King and the Choirboy is alive, the Choirboy uses their ability tonight.
  This applies even if the Choirboy dies later the same day before learning their information. 
  This jinx is on the King rather than the Choirboy to draw Riots attention to the fact that it is nominating the King that will trigger the jinx, not nominating the Choirboy.

Q How is a Riot game run if the Magician is in play?
A Riot do not wake together.
  Instead they are woken one by one and shown who their fellow Riot are, including the Magician.

Q What is the Riot jinx with the Mayor?
A If the third day begins with just three players alive, the players may choose (as a group) not to nominate at all.
  If so, and the Mayor is alive, then the Mayor's team wins.

Q What is the Riot jinx with the Monk?
A If a Riot player nominates the Monk-protected player, the Monk-protected player does not die.

Q What is the Riot jinx with the Pacifist?
A Players that die by nomination register as being executed to the Pacifist.

Q How is the Pixie run in a Riot game?
A The Pixie can gain their new ability during the day and have it take effect before they were even aware they have it.
  For example, the Pixie Tea Lady can immediately start protecting their neighbours when the original Tea Lady is nominated.
  If the Pixie gains a start knowing ability due to a Riot death during the day, but dies during the same day, they would not be woken up to gain it that night.

Q How does the Riot jinx with the Preacher work?
A All Riot players register as Minions to the Preacher.
  If all living Riot are preached, then the Riot ability is no longer active, and nominations and voting will go back to working as they normally would. 
  While even one living Riot remains unpreached, the Riot ability remains in play.

Q Does the Ravenkeeper or the Sage wake up if they are killed by a nomination from the Demon?
A No, unless it is a Riot game because of the jinx, in which case they use their ability tonight.

Q What is the Saint jinx with Riot?
A If a good player nominates and kills the Saint, the Saint's team loses.

Q Who gets three extra bluffs when the Snitch is in play in a Riot game?
A Each Riot player.

Q How does the Soldier work in a Riot game?
A If a Riot player nominates the Soldier, they do not die.  Also the Soldier is never forced to nominate, even D3, although it is usually in their interest that they do.
  The ST will still do the three second countdown and end the day if the Soldier does not nominate; if it is D3 the game would end with a Riot win.

Q What is the Riot jinx with the Town Crier?
A Riot registers as a Minion to the Town Crier.

Q If both of the Tea Lady's neighbours are good, what happens if one of them is nominated in a Riot game?
A They do not die, but they can (or must on day 3) nominate again.

Q What is the Undertaker jinx with Riot?
A All players that die through nomination register as having been executed to the UT. 
  The ST chooses one of those player's character token to show to the UT.

Q If a Townsfolk nominates the Virgin in a Riot game, which ability takes priority?
A The Virgin dies and the Townsfolk is immediately executed, ending the day.

  If it is day three, the game ends and the evil team wins. 
  After all, it is the Virgin's job to ask Townsfolk to not nominate her, or do it before day three.

------------------reword
Q Can there be a call to exile a Traveller while there is a Riot active?
A No, the call should be made before nominations open.

  In a Riot game calling for the exile of a Traveller does not kill them immediately;
  Riot only affects nominations, so a Traveller exile vote should be run as normal.
  There should be no interruptions once a Riot nomination train is rolling, so all calls for Traveller exiles should occur before nominations open.

Q Can each Riot be told different bluffs, or do all of them have to receive the same three?
A ST choice.
  When there are multiple Demons (like Legion), if the ST wants, each Demon can receive different bluffs.

Q In a Riot game, is there an extra Minion in play, for example four total evil in a 12 player game?
  Lil' Monsta specifically says there is +1 Minion, but Riot does not specify this.
A There is no +1 Minion, because the Demon is already Riot, so there is the usual number of evil players who are all Riot.

  The Lil' Monsta adds +1 Minion because the Monsta token does not actually go into the bag; the extra Minion is dealt so that there are the correct number of evil players.
  In the case of Riot, the correct number of evil tokens go into the bag because the ST adds that many Riot tokens, so there is no need to add an extra Minion.

  Just to clarify:
  * there are not supposed to be Minions in Riot games; the problem for good is that every starting evil player is a Demon, so they need to get rid of every evil player to win.
  * no player is the Lil' Monsta; the Minions choose a babysitter for the Lil' Monsta each night, making that player count as the Demon for all game mechanics that care.

Q Does the game immediately end if Riot is created after D3?
A If the Pit-Hag is responsible for creating Riot, then the game continues for one more day as per the jinx.
  The final day is then run as day 3 of a Riot game but this is not announced,
  so town will not know it is a Riot game until the ST starts counting down.

  Should the Engineer create Riot after D3 then the game is over.
  If the Pit-Hag turns a Minion into the evil Engineer who survives the following day, then an instant victory is possible.

Q If a player nominates themself in a Riot game, do they get to nominate again? 
A Yes.

Q Can a dead player be nominated in a Riot game?
A Yes, but the dead player can nominate again and must do so D3.

  However, there is an optional rule for Riot:
  "when Riot is in play, the dead may not be nominated.  This is more fun and is the original intent of Riot."

Q Can Riot self-nominate then do nothing?
A They can pass on the first two days, but D3 they must nominate.


======
=Sage=
======
Q Does a Mayor bounce to the Sage register as a Demon kill?
A Yes. 

  The Demon is still the source of the attack and the ST would place the Demon's dead token.

Q On an arbitrary deaths night, if a Demon, original or new, attacks the Sage, can the Sage die and learn the Demon that killed them?
A ST decision.

  It is an arbitrary deaths night.
  If the ST allows the original Demon's kill to go through then the Sage will learn two players, one of whom is the original Demon.
  If the ST blocks the kill and then kills the Sage with the Pit-Hag ability then the Sage does not receive any info.

Q Can the Sage who dies to a Demon learn the wrong Demon when there are multiple Demons in the game?
A No.

  One of the two players shown to the Sage must be the Demon responsible for their death.
  It is allowed for the false ping to be another Demon.

Q What does the Sage learn if they are killed by a bone collected Demon?
A They are shown two players:  the dead Demon that killed them plus another arbitrary player.
  The Sage is always specifically shown the Demon that killed them,
  so the living Demon, aka _the_ Demon, is not shown unless the ST feels like showing them as the false ping, perhaps for game balance purposes.


========
=Sailor=
========
Q Can the Gossip kill the Sailor?
A Only if the Sailor is drunk or poisoned, otherwise the Sailor cannot die by any means except to the Assassin.

Q Does a new instance of the Sailor created mid game (Barber / Cannibal / Damsel / Philosopher / Pit-Hag / ...) get to drink with someone the night that they are created?
A Philosopher Sailor and Cannibal Sailor sure, otherwise no, because it would already be past the Sailor's turn in the night order.
  Not drinking means that they cannot die that night or the following day.

Q Can the Sailor get an evil player drunk?
A Yes. Whether they should is up to the ST who may consider the current game state and which side they feel is winning.
  Generally the Sailor should be used to make Townsfolk drunk, and become drunk themself if they pick an evil player or an Outsider.
  It is safe to make an evil player drunk if their ability is spent.

Q If the Sailor makes themself drunk, does the drunkenness go away if they change character that night?
A Yes, as soon as they lose the Sailor ability that is making them drunk they become sober.


=======
=Saint=
=======
Q If the Philosopher Saint nominates the unspent Virgin, do good lose?
A Yes.


========
=Savant=
========
Q Can Savant information be affected by Recluse or Spy misregistration?
A Yes, although it is hotly debated whether it should be since it can make it a very hard to solve puzzle.

  The Savant must receive two statements, one true and one false,
  and if the ST is of the opinion that misregistration can affect the Savant's statements
  then, since the Recluse / Spy can register differently to different parts of the same ability,
  their registration is allowed to be different for both statements,
  such as registering as evil for one statement and good for the other.

Q Can the poisoned Savant receive two true statements?
A Yes, assuming no Vortox is in play. 


===========
=Scapegoat=
===========
Q Can the Scapegoat save the good Evil Twin or the Saint from being executed?
A Yes, not that they should.

Q If the Spy registers as a good townsfolk to the Virgin, can the evil Scapegoat be executed instead?
A Yes, as the Spy can register as good to one ability and evil to the next.


===============
=Scarlet Woman=
===============
Q What is the Al-Hadikhia jinx with the Scarlet Woman?
A If there are two living Al-Hadikhias, the Scarlet Woman Al-Hadikhia becomes the Scarlet Woman again.

  This means that if the Scarlet Woman turned Al-Hadikhia resurrects the Al-Hadikhia,
  they revert to being the Scarlet Woman rather than staying as a Demon as well.

Q Can the Demon who was the Scarlet Woman guess the Damsel?
A No, they are no longer a Minion.

Q There are five players left alive including the Imp and the Scarlet Woman.  The Imp is executed, leaving four alive.
  Does the SW activate?
A Yes.

Q In a Poppy Grower game, the Psychopath kills the Demon and then, later that same day,
  the Slayer chooses the Scarlet Woman. Does the SW die?
A Yes. The SW became the Demon even before they were informed.
  The SW's ability takes over the Demonhood immediately upon the Demon's death.
  If they did not, then the game would technically be over in the space between the Demon's death and the night phase.

Q If the Slayer slays the Demon, but the Scarlet Woman is in play, what happens?
A Assuming all involved are sober and healthy then if the Demon is slain when five or more player are alive,
  the Scarlet Woman will immediately become the Demon.
  The former SW should be informed at the next available opportunity the following night that they are now the Demon, before getting their pick(s).

Q If the Scarlet Woman becomes the Demon during the middle of the day (Slayer / Witch / ...), when are they informed?
  Should they ask?
  Do they have to wait until the SW's turn at night?
A The ST should wait until the start of the next night phase to inform them of their new character.
  The SW's position in the night order is really just a reminder in case the ST forgets to inform them that they are now the Demon after the previous Demon died during the day.
  So if the ST gets to that point and realises the ex-SW has not yet been informed, no big deal.
  
  Trigger based abilities are meant to happen the moment they trigger, 
  with any relevant things that may need to be done, or info given, at the first reasonable opportunity,
  often the start of the night. 
  The night order for trigger abilities should be considered flexible.

Q If the Scarlet Woman becomes the Demon, but is then instantly Snake Charmed,
  would they learn who the King, Marionette and Lunatic are?
A Yes, the SW is woken to learn of those characters before the Snake Charmer acts.

Q If the Demon is executed in final five, does the Scarlet Woman become the new Demon?
A Yes.

  The SW ability checks the player count immediately before the Demon's death.
  If the Demon dies and there were five or more alive players immediately before the Demon died,
  replace the Scarlet Woman token with a Demon token.

Q Is the drunk / poisoned / preached Scarlet Woman still prioritised when the Imp self-kills?
A No, but they can still become the Demon anyway.

Q What happens when the Demon dies and there are two Scarlet Woman abilities in the game?
A Both players become the Demon.

  This undesirable scenario could arise when there is:
  * the actual Scarlet Woman and the Alchemist Scarlet Woman;
  * a minion with SW ability after the Plague Doctor dies then a second Minion becomes the SW when the Hatter dies.


============
=Seamstress=
============
Q Can the Seamstress choose a dead player?
A Yes.


===========
=Shabaloth=
===========
Q Could the Scarlet Woman who becomes the new Shabaloth resurrect the old Shab?
A The ST should never use the Shab's ability to resurrect another Demon.

Q If the Shabaloth sinks a kill into a dead player, can that player be regurgitated the next night even though they were not killed by the Shab?
A Yes, since the Shab's ability is "a player you chose last night might be regurgitated"; it does not specify needing to be the killer.

Q The Shabaloth dies and the game continues (Evil Twin / Mastermind / Scarlet Woman / ...).  The dead Shabaloth's kills can no longer be regurgitated, correct?
A Correct, as the Shabaloth who picked them no longer has an ability, so cannot regurgitate anyone.

Q If the Shabaloth picks two players while drunk or poisoned they do not die that night, but if one of them is executed the next day, could they be regurgitated the following night?
A Yes.

Q When four players go to sleep with the living Shabaloth amongst them is the game effectively over?
A No.

  Regurgitation happens before the Shabaloth kills,
  so the ST can choose to regurgitate one of the Shab's picks from last night,
  bringing the game up to five living players,
  guaranteeing at least three players left alive after the Shabaloth's picks for this night are processed.

Q Can the Shabaloth choose to regurgitate players?
A The Shabaloth does not control whether someone is regurgitated; that choice falls to the Storyteller.

Q Does the Shabaloth regurgitate before or after they kill?
A Before.

Q Does the Shabaloth get shown who is regurgitated that night before she picks her next two kills?
A No, the Shabaloth is not told anything about regurgitations.
  The ST makes the decision on regurgitation before the Shabaloth wakes, 
  (i.e. before the kills)
  then wakes the Shab and has her point to two players.
  Any deaths and resurrections are announced at the start of the day, and the players update the Town Square accordingly.

Q How exactly does the Shabaloth work? When does regurgitation happen?
A If the Shabaloth chose two people the night before, then just before they attack tonight, one of those people they chose, if they are currently dead, may come back to life.
  Note that if the Shabaloth is chosen by the Exorcist and does not wake to attack anyone tonight, they can still bring one of their previous night's targets back to life 
  because regurgitation is not tied to their waking up. 

  Note that the Shabaloth's previous targets do not need to have been killed by the Shabaloth's attack in order to be revived,
  they only need to be dead on the next night.
  This means that the Shabaloth can choose someone who is already dead and revive them the next night,
  or the Shabaloth's target can survive the attack,
  then die the next day and subsequently be revived because they are now dead in time.

Q Does a player regurgitated by the Shabaloth get to use their ability the same night?
A Shabaloth regurgitations happen just before they choose their next victims, so only roles that act after the Shabaloth get to use their ability tonight.

Q Can the Shabaloth regurgitate more than once in a game?
A Yes.  Once per game is just a suggestion but there is nothing stopping the ST from using it more if they feel it is justified.

Q If there are four players left alive at the start of the night in a Shabaloth game, could regurgitation keep the game going after the Shabaloth kills two players?
A Regurgitation, if it happens, happens before the kills.
  So the night would start with four alive,
  regurgitation would bring this up to five,
  then there would be three alive after the kills.
  
  It is recommended that an ST not regurgitate into final 3 though, as that is rough on the evil team.


========
=Slayer=
========
Q When is the last moment a character can activate their ability? 
  Should the Slayer be allowed to use their ability after the day's execution has been carried out?
A Any time before they die, and before the day officially ends.
  So after they are on the block but before they are actually executed is fine.
  Most STs also allow a few seconds for day abilities between the execution and officially declaring the day over and night beginning,
  but that might vary by ST, so players should clarify what is allowable before relying on that window.
  Most would not allow the Slayer their shot after their execution as they are dead.

Q If the Slayer successfully shoots a player, does the day end?
A No, either the game is over or the day continues.

  The Slayer's kill is not an execution so the day does not have to immediately end if the game can mechanically continue:
  * it was the Recluse registering as the Demon who was killed;
  * the Scarlet Woman was able to become the new Demon at the moment the previous Demon was killed;
  * the Twins are both alive;
  * the Zombuul fake died.

  If the game is not over then the day continues and nominations will happen and another player can die to execution.
  If the game is over then the day ends there.

Q Can the Slayer shoot mid vote?
A Yes, but the ST might want to finish resolving the vote first and the player may have to repeat their target in case the ST did not hear it or forgot.
  The ST may not be inclined to let the Slayer kill or clear someone in the middle of the vote,
  so the Slayer might want to do it before, so that there is no need to vote, or after, to convince town to lift.


===============
=Snake Charmer=
===============
Q The evil Snake Charmer charms a good Demon, swapping characters. Do they still swap alignments?
A Yes.

Q If the Snake Charmer charms the Demon, do they receive any bluffs?
A No.

Q If an ability gainer (Apprentice / Cannibal / Philosopher / Pixie) with the Snake Charmer ability picks the Demon,
  does the Demon become the Snake Charmer?
A No, they become a new self-poisoning instance of the character that held the Snake Charmer ability.
  The ex Demon is not told that they are self-poisoned,
  but from their new character will deduce who picked them.

Q What happens when the Cannibal Snake Charmer picks the Demon?
A The Cannibal becomes an evil Demon and the Demon becomes a good self-poisoned Cannibal. 
  The Demon is not told that they are poisoned but will deduce that they Cannibal SC picked them.

Q If the self-poisoning Snake Charmer is Barber swapped, is the new Snake Charmer self-poisoned?
A No.  As a new instance of the Snake Charmer they are healthy, as is the player who was previously Snake Charmer.

Q If the dead self-poisoning Snake Charmer is resurrected (Professor / Al-Hadikhia) are they now healthy?
A Yes, as they are treated as a new instance of the character.

Q If the Snake Charmer and the Demon swap, does the new Demon learn who the Minions are?
A No, unless the Poppy Grower is killed after that.

Q Can the ST show a poisoned Snake Charmer that she turned into the evil Demon?
A Yes, but it is not recommended.  
  The ST can even give a fake Lunatic, tell her the next night that she killed the Poppy Grower, ...

Q If the Snake Charmer chooses a dead Demon, does she become the Demon?
A The Snake Charmer must choose alive players.

Q What is the difference between the Demon being picked by the Snake Charmer and the Philosopher Snake Charmer?
A In the first case the Demon becomes a self-poisoned Snake Charmer,
  while in the second case she becomes a self-poisoned Philosopher.

Q What happens if the Snake Charmer hits the Lleech?
A The ST needs to shuffle a lot of tokens:
  # The Snake Charmer becomes the new Lleech.
  # The ex-Lleech becomes the poisoned Snake Charmer.
  # The previous host is no longer poisoned or a host, so the host token is removed.
  # The new Lleech, just as if it was N1, gets to pick a new host.
  
Q Does the new Demon wake and kill after a Snake Charmer swap?
A Yes, assuming their Demon character wakes that night, since all Demons act after the SC in the night order;
  wake the new Demon at their turn in the night order to get their kill.
  This also means that the player who was previously he Demon will only wake tonight to learn their new character, and alignment if applicable.

Q The Philosopher picks Snake Charmer, making the original SC drunk, and then chooses the Demon.
  So the starting Philo is now the evil Demon and the starting Demon is now the self-poisoned good Philo.
  What happens when the original no longer Philo-drunk Snake Charmer chooses this new Demon?
A In the case of a Snake Charmer and a Philosopher with the Snake Charmer ability both in play, 
  the ST decides who acts first, which is important for this situation.

  If the Philosopher-SC acts first and becomes the Demon, 
  then the old Demon becomes a self-poisoned Philosopher and the actual SC becomes sober
  (since the Philo causing them to be drunk is no longer in play; we have a new instance of the Philo).
  Now the Snake Charmer can also choose the new Demon (the game's starting Philo) and swap to the Demon.

  So it is possible for the starting Philosopher to become the evil Demon and then the good self-poisoned Snake Charmer.
  If that happens then the starting Demon would become the self-poisoned Philosopher, and remain as such after the second snake charming which will have no affect on them.

  Depending on the kind of game the ST likes to run and the group likes to experience, 
  generally it would be recommended to have the Philo-drunk Snake Charmer choose first to prevent this overload of shenanigans.

Q If the Philosopher Snake Charmer is killed by the Demon, does the now sober Snake Charmer's pick that night go through?
A No, because the Demon kills after all players with the Snake Charmer ability have made their choices.

Q What happens when the Philosopher Snake charms the Demon?
A The Philo becomes the Demon, the Demon becomes the self-poisoned Philosopher, and the Snake Charmer, if there is one, is no longer Philo drunk.

Q What is poisoning the new instance of the Snake Charmer, after the old one becomes the Demon?
A The new SC poisons themself.

Q After the Demon is snake charmed they become a new, self-poisoning instance of the Snake Charmer.
  Do they remain poisoned if they change character?
A No.  Once they lose the Snake Charmer ability that is poisoning themself, they become healthy.

Q How does a self-poisoned snake charmer become healthy?
A By swapping character (Barber / Pit-Hag / ...) or via a Barista 1:
  * Barber swapping with another player will lead to a new instance of the Snake Charmer who is not self-poisoned;
  * swapping to another character with the Pit-Hag ability will remove the instance of the Snake Charmer causing the player to be poisoned;
  * Barista 1 will make them the sober and healthy Snake Charmer for one night who ability will trigger if they successfully pick a player registering as a Demon.

Q Is the self-poisoned Snake Charmer still woken each night to pick a player?
A Yes.

Q The Demon is snake charmed and becomes the self-poisoned Snake Charmer.
  The next night, the Pit-Hag transforms their former Demon into a new character.
  Is that new character also poisoned?
A No.
  The SC poisoning only stays active while that SC is in play. 
  If they change into any new character or die and are then revived, they are no longer self-poisoned.

Q Does the Snake Charmer successfully charming the Demon reset all of the old Demon's reminder tokens?
A Yes, with some exceptions.

  The new Demon is treated as a new instance of the Demon so,
  most of the time, all of the previous Demon's reminder tokens can be safely removed.
  For example:
  * the ex-Pukka's previously poisoned player becomes healthy and is no longer scheduled to die, potentially causing a night of no deaths;
  * any Minions killed by the ex-Vigormortis lose their abilities and no longer poison a Townsfolk neighbour;
  * the previous Lleech host becomes healthy;
  * the No Dashii's Townsfolk neighbours become healthy;
  * the new Po does not get three attacks if the previous Po had charged;
  * the previous Yaggababbles potential kills do not carry over to the new Yaggababble.

  However:
  * the Fang Gu's 'once' token, if present, remains in the centre of the Grimoire as this is global and nothing in the game can remove this;
  * the Leviathan's day reminders are not reset as the day count is universal.

Q What happens if the Snake Charmer chooses a player that died that night?
A They are prompted to choose another player.

  This could happen if they choose the Gambler who has just died to their own gamble.


========
=Snitch=
========
Q How does the Marionette jinx with the Snitch work?
A The Marionette is not woken to learn three out of play characters.
  Instead the Demon is shown an additional three instead, 
  with additional meaning just that: the Demon must see three more different characters.
  But, Snitch bluffs do not have to be good roles;
  useful if the ST think the Demon is good as is,
  or is running out of tokens for a full game.

Q Does the Snitch cause the Summoner to get two sets of bluffs?
A Yes.

Q Can the Minions learn evil characters via the Snitch?
A Yes, if the ST wants that. The Snitch's text does not specify "good characters". 


=========
=Soldier=
=========
Q Is the Soldier safe from the Demon using the Barber swap on them?
A No.

  Changing character is not considered to be harmful.

Q Is the Soldier sat next next to the No Dashii poisoned?
A No.

  In the Grimoire the No Dashii reminder token is placed upside down by the Soldier.

  Should the Soldier become drunk or poisoned from another source (Innkeeper / Poisoner / Sailor / Sweetheart / ...)
  then the No Dashii poisoning takes effect and remains even after the other source of drunkenness or poisoning wears off.

Q Can the Pukka poison and kill the Soldier?
A No.

  The Soldier is safe from all of the Demon's harmful effects
  so they are not poisoned and consequently do not die the following night.

Q Is the Soldier safe from the Summoner?
A No, because the Summoner is not the Demon.

Q Minions killed by the Vigormortis poison a Townsfolk neighbour.  Is the Soldier safe from this poisoning?
A Yes, as it is a Demon ability that causes the poisoning.

------------------combine
Q Can the Soldier die in a Legion game?
A Not to Legion, as a Legion player counts as both a Demon and a Minion,
  and the source of the kill is still a Legion player even when the ST picks the target.
  
Q When the ST picks the Demon's kills (Legion / Lil' Monsta / Ojo / Yaggababble) can the Soldier die?
A No, the Soldier is always safe from the Demom's harmful effects, regardless of how they are applied.

Q Can the sober Soldier die during the night in a Lil' Monsta game?
A Not to the babysitter, as the source of the kill is still the Demon even when the ST picks the target.
  It is possible for the Soldier to die to non-Demon sources.
-----------------------------------


=====
=Spy=
=====
Q Can the Spy be poisoned by the No Dashii?
A No.  The poisoning would sort of loop: 
  # The Spy who neighbours the No Dashii and misregisters as a Townsfolk becomes poisoned.
  # Being poisoned, the Spy can no longer register as a Townsfolk.
  # The No Dashii poisoning must move to the next neighbour as the current target is not a Townsfolk so no longer valid.
  # The Spy is no longer poisoned and regains their ability.

  But the ST is free to repeatedly move the poison from the Spy to the next Townsfolk and back, to their own delight for as long as they want.

Q Can the Spy registering as good become the Farmer?
A Yes.

Q Can the Spy register as not a Minion and stay as the Spy despite an attempted Engineer swap?
A Yes.

Q If the Ojo or the Courtier chose the Spy, could the Spy misregister to avoid being chosen?
A Yes.

Q If the Ojo targets a Townsfolk can the attack be redirected to the Spy registering as same?
A Yes, but this is probably a bad idea.

  The Spy misregistering as a good character can cause her:
  * to die instead when the Ojo targets any good character.
  * to survive if the Ojo targets the Spy, causing an Ojo miss so the ST picks the kill(s).

  But note:
  * if the Spy does register as the intended target there is still only one death, so the ST could not kill off both the actual target and the Spy.
  * the Spy could still register as the Spy and be killed by the Ojo.

  This logic also works with the Recluse:
  * picking any evil character can kill the Recluse instead
  * picking the Recluse can have the Recluse misregister and therefore survive, again causing an Ojo miss so the ST picks the kill(s).

Q If the Spy is drunk / poisoned, does she still get to view the Grimoire or does she get to view a fake version of the Grimoire?
A The ST could show the drunk / poisoned Spy any version of the Grimoire that they wished:
  * the correct one, 
  * something totally wild,
  * the Grimoire with just one or two small changes to throw off what the Spy thinks the game state is.

  Since showing her the correct Grimoire works against the idea of the Spy malfunctioning,
  and showing her a wildly inaccurate Grimoire tips her off that she is getting bad info, 
  the simpler approach is just to show her that different people are malfunctioning,
  then watch her report that the Mayor or the Slayer is powerless, and then surprise!
  
  Remember that the Spy cannot misregister as a Townsfolk or Outsider while drunk or poisoned.

Q When showing the (sober and healthy) Spy the Grimoire,
  can the ST replace a (sober and healthy) Recluse's token with any Minion or Demon token, 
  and/or the Spy's own token with any Townsfolk or Outsider token?
  For example, could you replace the Spy's own token with the Drunk token for funs and giggles?
A Yes, and it is used sometimes, for example, to show what the Spy was seen as to the Washerwoman or the Librarian.

Q Does the Spy and the Widow see everything in the Grimoire?
A Any player that gets to look at the Grimoire sees what the ST has in there.

  Most STs will leave reminder tokens in but they could remove them first if they wanted to.
  If the ST has marked out the Demon bluffs separately from the other out of play characters then those will be seen too.

Q Can the Spy be the Red Herring?
A Yes, though it is kinda sneaky. The Spy can also start registering as evil at some point, causing the RH to move to another good player (even sneakier).
  Use caution.

Q Can the Spy die to the Virgin?
A Yes.

  If the Spy nominates the Virgin then the ST will usually register the Spy as a Townsfolk to the Virgin's ability thus triggering the Spy's execution.

Q Can the Spy register as the Virgin and cause a Townsfolk nominator to be executed?
A No, registering as a character does not mean that they have that character's ability.

Q Can the Spy register as the Damsel and then the Recluse be told that the Damsel is in play?
A No. The Spy registering as a character does not gain that character's ability.

Q Can the sober and healthy Slayer hit the Spy, who registers as the Recluse, which then registers as the Demon?
A No. Registering as something does not give the player that ability.
  So the Spy registering as the Recluse cannot then register through the Recluse's ability, since they do not have it.

---------------reword
Q If the Spy is juggled twice, once as the Spy and once as the Juggler, can the Juggler receive a two, or can the Spy only register as one character for the whole ability?
A 0, 1 and 2 are all valid numbers for that juggle. 
  Comparing with the Spy/Chef interaction, getting a two is valid.
  But, just because an ST could give a two, does not mean that she should.

Q If the Spy is preached and later dies, do they get the misregistration part of their ability back after the Preacher dies?
A Yes.

Q Can the Town Crier can get a no if the Spy nominates?
A Yes.

Q Can the Washerwoman be shown whatever the Spy is registering as?
A Yes.
  The ST points to the Spy and one other player and shows them any Townsfolk token.
  This could be a good move for the ST when there is not a lot of other misinformation in play, for instance, no Drunk and no Poisoner.

  When the Spy is one of the players shown to the Washerwoman, the shown character is allowed to be:
  # out of play,
  # the in play character of the non-Spy player in the shown pair,
  # the in play character of another player, not shown to the Washerwoman.

  The third option is really sneaky.


=========
=Steward=
=========
Q Can the Steward see the Cult Leader?
A On the first night they can, as the CL cannot change alignment until after the Steward has learnt their good player.
  However, for a mid game created Steward the CL might not be a valid target.

Q Can the Steward see the Good Twin?
A Yes, but this might not be fun ... the rest of the game state and players should be considered before doing this.

Q Can the Steward see the Marionette?
A No, although the Marionette thinks they are good, they are evil.

Q Can the Steward see the Recluse?
A Yes, as long as they are not registering as evil at the time.

Q Can the Steward see the Spy registering as good?
A Yes.

Q What happens if the Steward's good player becomes evil later?
A Nothing. The Steward is a start knowing ability, not a constantly knows.


===============
=Storm Catcher=
===============
Q Can the Fang Gu jump to a storm caught Outsider?
A No, as the Fang Gu must be able to kill their target in order to jump to them.

Q If the player favoured by the Storm Catcher is turned evil (Mezepheles) what happens?
A They are still storm caught meaning they can only die by execution.

Q If the Boomdandy explodes, can the player favoured by the Storm Catcher die?
A No.  However, the Storm Catcher can be removed from play immediately before the Boomdandy execution and kill the previously storm caught character at will.

Q The Storm Catcher favours the Damsel ...?
A Do not storm catch the Damsel!

Q Do newly created evil players, such as the Demon jumping, learn the player favoured by the Storm Catcher?
A Yes.

Q Does the Marionette learn the player favoured by the Storm Catcher?
A RAW yes, but it would probably be best that they do not, as otherwise that would tell the Marionette that they are evil.

  Good players do not learn about storm caught players, and the Marionette thinks they are good, so that kind of works.
  Assume that if jinxes existed between Fabled characters and non-Fabled characters that this would be one of them.


==========
=Summoner=
==========
Q What does the Clockmaker learn when the Summoner is in play?
A As per the jinx, the Clockmaker is not woken N1, immediately alerting her to the fact that the Summoner is in play, 
  but is instead told her info after the Demon is made.

Q Can the drunk or poisoned Clockmaker receive a number N1 in a Summoner game?
A Yes, as this would deceive them that they have a working ability.
  But if they are sober and healthy N3 then they would have to get real info.

Q What happens if the Engineer choose to change the Demon, but there is no Demon yet in a Summoner game?
A There is no effect.

Q What happens when the Engineer removes the Summoner from the game before they have had a chance to use their ability?
A The Summoner immediately uses their ability.

Q Would the Exorcist block the Demon from waking N3 if they pick the player turned by the Summoner?
A Yes, the Summoner would have turned the player into the Demon by the time the Exorcist wakes and picks the corresponding player.

Q If the Kazali adds the Godfather, does the Outsider count need to be modified?
A No, that is a setup effect and setup effects do not happen mid game.

Q Can there potentially be two Demons if the Hatter dies and a Minion becomes the Summoner?
A The Hatter jinx with the Summoner means that the Summoner cannot create an in play Demon and if they create an out of play Demon,
  deaths are arbitrary that night, so the ST will likely kill of one of the Demons.

Q Can the Kazali create a Summoner?
A Yes, but then because of the jinx the Summoner cannot create an in play Demon and if they create an out of play Demon,
  deaths are arbitrary that night, so the ST will likely kill of one of the Demons.

Q Does the game continue if the Kazali, who N1 made a Summoner, dies before N3?
A Yes, the Summoner ability keeps the game going until they can summon a new Demon N3.

Q Does the summoned Kazali get to choose new Minions?
A No.

Q Can the Summoner pick Legion?
A Yes and, as per the jinx, most players, including all the evil players, become evil Legion.

Q What is the Summoner told when the Magician is in play?
A The Summoner learns that the Magician is the Demon.  
  Summoner and Magician are not a great interaction.

Q Who does the Marionette neighbour in a Summoner game?
A As per the jinx they neighbour the Summoner, who becomes informed of the Marionette.

Q Can the Pit-Hag create the Summoner, leading to two Demons after N3?
A Yes, but according to the Summoner jinx with the Pit-Hag, the Summoner cannot create an in play Demon,
  and if they create an out of play Demon,
  deaths tonight are arbitrary 
  in which case the ST should probably kill off the old Demon.

Q How does the Summoner work in a Poppy Grower game?
A As per the jinx, if the Poppy Grower is alive, sober and healthy when the Summoner acts,
  then while the Summoner chooses which Demon, the ST chooses which player.

Q What happens if the Summoner is preached on or before N3?
A Then as per the jinx, the Summoner still chooses which Demon comes into play but the ST chooses which player becomes the Demon.

Q What is the Pukka jinx with the Summoner?
A The Summoner may choose a player to become the Pukka on N2.
  This stops the Demon type being immediately obvious otherwise when there is no kill N3.

Q If the Summoner picks the player made drunk by the Puzzlemaster or the Sweetheart, does that mean the Demon is now drunk?
A Yes.

Q What is the Summoner jinx with Riot?
A If the Summoner creates Riot, all Minions become Riot.

Q What happens when the Summoner is drunk or poisoned?
A If it is N3 then the game ends with a good win,
  unless the drunkenness is due to the Courtier in which case because of the jinx the Demon chosen by the Summoner is still made, but the ST chooses which player becomes that Demon.

  On any other night there is no effect and the game continues.

Q If the Summoner enters play after N3, do they still get to pick a Demon?
A No.

  The Summoner's ability specifies N3, which does not mean their third night, but the game's third night.
  They are not like the Juggler whose ability acts on their first day, not the game's first day.

Q Who does an evil Traveller learn as the Demon before N3 in a Summoner game?
A RAW no one.
  Some STs rule that the evil Traveller is informed of the Demon after the Demon is created, while some rule it reasonable to show the Summoner.
  Alternatively the ST could pick Travellers that work well without specifically needing to know the evil team.

Q Does the Summoner receive bluffs in a Teensyville game?
A Yes, that is a function of the Summoner ability, and all character abilities function normally in a game with five or six players. 

Q Why are there jinxes between the Summoner and the Kazali, Hatter and Pit-Hag?
A They exist to prevent there being two living Demons in play together in non-Summoner games.

  When the Summoner comes into play after setup and before N3 then, without the jinxes, the Summoner would be able to summon another Demon in addition to the starting Demon.
  The Summoner can enter play via:
  * the Hatter dying and a Minion choosing to become the Summoner;
  * the Pit-Hag creating the Summoner;
  * the Kazali picking the Summoner as one of their Minions.


============
=Sweetheart=
============
Q The Sweetheart died, making a player drunk.
  Does that player sober when the Philosopher chooses the Sweetheart ability?
A Yes. Making the Sweetheart drunk, even if she is dead, will cancel her ability, 
  thus sobering whoever was made Sweetheart drunk.

Q Does an evil player who becomes the Sweetheart still drunk another player when they die?
A Yes.

Q Does the drunkenness caused by the Sweetheart end if the targeted player ever changes character?
A No, unless they are swapped with the Sweetheart.

  The Sweetheart drunkenness is on the player, not the character, so the new character enters play drunk.
  To end the drunkenness requires the Sweetheart to be swapped.

Q If a dead player becomes the Sweetheart (Barber / Pit-Hag / ...) is another player Sweetheart drunk for the rest of the game?
A No. 

  The Sweetheart's ability is a trigger on death, not a constant check of living status, as it states "when you die" not "whilst you are dead", so:
  * a player with the Sweetheart ability dies: another player is instantly drunk for the rest of the game;
  * a dead player becomes the Sweetheart: no player becomes drunk.

Q If the Sweetheart is resurrected (Al-Hadikhia), regurgitated (Shabaloth) or swapped to a living player (Barber),
  so that there is now a living Sweetheart in the game, 
  does the player that they previously caused to be drunk become immediately sober?
A Yes.

  Resurrected, regurgitated and swapped roles are treated as new instances of the role,
  so as a new instance of the Sweetheart, any drunkenness by the previous instance ceases.
  If the new instance dies, then a player becomes drunk again.
  The target of the second Sweetheart drunkenness can of course be different to the first.

Q If the dead Sweetheart becomes another character (Barber / Pit-Hag / ...) does the drunkenness they are causing end?
A Yes, any character that is removed from play has all their effects removed.


==========
=Tea Lady=
==========
Q Can either of the Tea Lady's good neighbours die to the Moonchild?
A No.

  If both of the Tea Lady's neighbours are good then they cannot die to any ability except the Assassin's.

Q What happens if the Tea Lady has two good neighbours and a multi-kill Demon (Al-Hadikhia /Po / Shabaloth / ...) attacks the Tea Lady and one or both of her neighbours?
A As soon as the Tea Lady dies, the protection disappears.
  The Demon's choice order matters though. If the protected neighbour is chosen first and then the TL is chosen, only the TL dies.
  But if the TL is chosen first, the protection is gone and the neighbour will also die.

Q Does the Tea Lady protection update between a multi-kill Demon's (Al-Hadikhia /Po / Shabaloth / ...) picks?
A Yes.

Q How does the Tea Lady interact with Travellers?
A The Tea Lady's ability only cares about the alignment of their living neighbours;
  if both are good then both are protected.
  Travellers are not ignored,
  so a neighbouring good Traveller can be Tea Lady protected.

  Since Traveller exile is treated as death,
  this means that a Tea Lady protected Traveller cannot be exiled.
  The Traveller could still leave the game though.


========
=Tinker=
========
Q Can the Tinker die by execution if they are protected (Devil's Advocate / Tea Lady)?
A No, but they can die to their own ability in the case of the DA to fake that the execution was successful,
  but their own ability cannot override any Tea Lady protection.

Q Can the Tinker die in the day due to their power? / Can the Tinker die N1?
A Yes, as long as they are unprotected, since their ability is active as soon as the game starts, and "at any time" means just that.
  But the ST should carefully consider whether this is a good idea.
  Obviously the Tinker would be delighted as that hard confirms them.

Q Can the ST kill the Tinker at dawn, along with any other deaths, so it seems to be a night kill when it was not?
A That is an ST / group decision, seeing as "yes, of course" and "no, definitely not" are valid answers.
  The ST can pick whatever ruling is the most fun for the group and should always clarify how they run the game if asked.

  If a faked night death is allowed then it can be used to:
  * gift the Godfather a kill the following night,
  * make it look like that the Innkeeper protected Tinker was killed by the Assassin.

  The Tinker's dawn death must be announced after the night deaths, as that is how the day is started.
  If players then ask whether the Tinker died in the night or not, 
  do not clarify this otherwise it defeats the point of using the Tinker in this way.

Q Can the Tinker die at any time?
A Yes!

  They can die:
  * as soon as D1 starts, giving the Godfather a kill today;
  * when they nominate, simulating the Witch;
  * when nominated, simulating the Golem;
  * when they vote, losing their ghost vote.

  The Tinker is not limited to dying at their turn in the night order.
  Their spot in the night order is there as a reminder to the ST that if they want the Tinker to die, do it now.


============
=Town Crier=
============
Q Does a preached Minion still register to the Town Crier?
A Yes, a preached Minion is still a Minion and if they nominate the Town Crier is alerted.

Q If the Town Crier is dead during the day and the next night is resurrected / reguritated (Al-Hadikhia / Professor / Shabaloth / ...),
  are they told if a Minion nominated the previous day?
A Yes.

Q If a Minion nominates during the day and then that night becomes another character type (Barber/ Engineer/ Hatter / Pit-Hag / ...)
  does the Town Crier still get a 'yes'?
A Yes.  Similarly a player who nominates and then becomes a Minion is still a Town Crier 'no'.

  The Town Crier ability only cares whether or not a Minion nominated the previous day.
  If any did then the ST will have placed the 'Minions nominated' token in the Grimoire,
  and that token will still be there no matter how many character swaps occur,
  so the ST reports a 'yes' to the Town Crier.
  Similarly, if no Minion nominated today
  then the Grimoire will still contain the 'Minions not nominated' reminder token
  regardless of who is currently a Minon when the Town Crier wakes to receive a 'no'.


==========
=Toymaker=
==========
Q Does the Demon get bluffs in a Teensyville game? 
A No.  Also the evil team does not learn each other.

  Unless it is a Teensyville script using the Toymaker Fabled character, 
  which gives evil players their usual information but the Demon must skip attacking one night.

Q Does the Po choosing to charge satisfy the Toymaker's requirement that the Demon must choose not to attack at least once per game?
A Yes.

Q Does the Poppy Grower ability still prevent the evil team learning each other in a small game with the Toymaker Fabled in play?
A Yes.


============
=Undertaker=
============
Q If the Drunk is executed, what does the Undertaker see?
A The Undertaker is shown the Drunk character token, not the token for the Townsfolk that the Drunk player thought they were.

Q The Imp is executed, the Scarlet Woman kills the Hatter, and the former Imp becomes the Spy.
  Could the Undertaker learn a Townsfolk or Outsider instead of Imp?
A No, they must see Imp.  The Undertaker learns their character at the time of their execution, not what character that player currently is or registering as.

Q If a character which can misregister while dead (Recluse / Spy) is executed, what does the Undertaker see?
A The Undertaker like any character checker is affected by misregistration,
  so they can see the Recluse as any of the Minions or Demons from the script or simply as the Recluse,
  while they can see the Spy as any Townsfolk or Outsider on the script or as the Spy.

Q The poisoned Recluse is executed, but is not poisoned when the UT's turn comes up in the night, what happens?
A The UT must see the Recluse.
  The UT evaluates the character not at the time that they wake but when the character died.
  So the ST has to take the answer at the moment of execution, which would have to be Recluse.

Q A player is executed and dies. Another dead player then breaks madness (Cerenovus / Harpy / Mutant). 
  Can the second player be executed for madness breaking and shown to the Undertaker?
A No, the UT learns which character died by execution. If one player is already dead, the UT can only learn the one who died by execution, not either.

Q Does the Undertaker learn the role of an executed player that does not die? 
A No.

  The Undertaker's ability reads "you learn which character died by execution today" so the execution must cause the player to die.
  So executing dead players or protected players means the Undertaker receives no info.

Q What does the Undertaker learn if more than one player died by execution today (Butcher/ Cerenovus / Mutant ...)?
A The ST chooses one of the executees and shows their character token to the UT.

Q Can the Undertaker learn the character of any player that died the previous day?
A No.  The Undertaker only learns the character of players that were executed, either through a majority of votes or a madness break (Cerenovus / Mutant).
  The Undertaker does not learn about players dying through other means (Gangster/ Harpy / Slayer / ...).

Q If the Undertaker is resurrected at night (Al-Hadikhia / Professor / ...) does she learn the most recent executee, even if she was dead at the time of their execution?
A Yes.

Q If a player is executed then swaps character (Barber / Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag)
  what does the Undertaker see?
A They learn the player's character at the time of the execution.

  The Undertaker's ability is past tense: they learn what character was executed, not what character that player currently is.
  This contrasts with the Cannibal's ability which is a constant check of the last executee's character.
 

=============
=Vigormortis=
=============
Q The Barber was killed by the Vigormortis, and swapped with a Minion. Does the dead Minion keep their ability? 
A No.
  A player must be a Minion at the time of the kill and remain a Minion the entire time for the Vigor to work.
  It is okay to become a different Minion, as long as they are never not a Minion in between.
 
  If a player dies as a non-Minion, they do not ever get to keep an ability even if they become a Minion later.

Q If the Boomdandy is executed after they were killed by the Vigormortis,
  does their ability still trigger?
A Yes.

  Through the Vigor the Boomdandy retains their ability, which does not require them to die to the execution,
  so they explode.

Q Killing the Evil Twin as the Vigormortis loses the unwinnable condition,
  because the text says 'good cannot win if you both live.' 
  However, if the Good Twin is executed while the Evil Twin has their ability because of the Vigormortis, does evil win?
A Yes.

Q If the publicly claimed Goblin is executed after they were killed by the Vigormortis,
  does their ability still trigger?
A Yes.

  Through the Vigor the Goblin retains their ability, which does not require them to die to the execution,
  so their win condition triggers.

Q What is the effect of the Vigormortis killing their Marionette?
A Besides one of their closest Townsfolk neighbours being poisoned from now on, 
  the Marionette retains their ability,
  but since this is a "you think are a good character" and killed good characters do not normally wake in the night,
  the ST should probably stop waking them.

Q If a living Minion gains another out of play Minion ability via the Plague Doctor,
  do they keep this second ability if killed by the Vigormortis?
A Yes.

Q The Vigormortis kills their Pit-Hag. The dead Pit-Hag changes the Vigormortis to another Demon.
  Does the PH lose their ability due to the Vigormortis being no longer in play?
A Yes.  Additionally the ST still has a momentary ability to kill arbitrarily, so should probably signal the Demon change,
  because after that moment passes, the Pit-Hag's ability is gone again, so deaths are not arbitrary anymore.

Q Would a Vigormortis-killed Pit-Hag that turns themself into a Townsfolk/Outsider fail to gain that ability?
A They would become that role and then no longer have an ability.

  "Minions you kill keep their ability" means that if the player killed by Vigor is not a Minion, or stops being one, they lose their ability.
  Notably, a Vigor-killed Minion can be changed into a different Minion character and continue to use that ability, because it is still a Minion ability.
  But once they become something that is not a Minion, their ability is gone, even if they later become a Minion again.

Q What happens when the Vigor-killed Poisoner poisons the Vigormortis?
A Endless drunkenness or poisoning loops are resolved by having all parties drunk/poisoned,
  until one effect wears off as it normally would.

  In this scenario
  both the Poisoner and the Vigor are poisoned,
  until the Poisoner switches target or one of them dies,
  so:
  * the poisoned Townsfolk is temporarily healthy;
  * the Vigor does not kill.

Q Could the Recluse misregister as a Minion when she is killed by the Vigormortis in order to poison a Townsfolk neighbour?
A Yes.

  If the Recluse is ever drunk or poisoned then they lose their ability to register as a Minion so the poisoning must stop.
  The ST can also at any time have the Recluse stop registering as a Minion to stop the poisoning.
  Once the poisoning is stopped, it cannot resume.

  Arguably Outsiders should always be used to hinder the good team, but the ST might need to consider game balance when making decisions.

Q Does the Vigormortis-killed Scarlet Woman become the dead Demon if the Vigor dies with 5+ alive?
A Yes, which could end the game.  Vigormortis and SW are not a great pairing.

Q If a Vigormortis killed Minion changes character (Engineer/ Hatter / Pit-Hag)
  does the Minion keep their ability?
A A Vigor killed Minion keeps their ability and continues to poison the same neighbouring Townsfolk as long as they always remain a Minion.

  If they ever stop being a Minion, they lose their ability and stop poisoning a neighbour, even if they later become a Minion again.

-----------------------------combine
Q What happens if a Vigormortis-poisoned Townsfolk becomes a different character type (Barber / Pit-Hag) or 
  a neighbouring player being skipped by the poison becomes a Townsfolk?
A The target is no longer valid,
  so the poison must move to a new Townsfolk neighbour, alive or dead, in either direction of the Vigor-killed Minion.

Q Who is poisoned after the Vigormortis kills one of their Minions?
A One of the nearest Townsfolk neighbours of the killed Minion, in either direction.
  This is a constant check so if the target of the poison ceases to be a Townsfolk, or an inbetween player becomes a Townsfolk,
  then the poisoned player is no longer a valid target of the poison,
  so the poison must move to a new Townsfolk neighbour, alive or dead, in either direction of the Vigor-killed Minion. 
---------------------------

Q A Vigormortis killed Minion keeps her power and poisons one of her neighbours.
  Could a second kill, by another character or by execution, of that Minion disable her ability and the poisoning?
A No.

  A second kill would have no effect on the Minion: a dead player cannot be killed, they are already dead.

Q If the Vigormortis swaps players (Barber / Hatter / Scarlet Woman / Snake Charmer / ...) does a Minion they have killed keep her ability and continue to poison her neighbour,
  or do dead Minions need to be rekilled by the new Vigormortis?
A Character swaps essentially reset the characters; they are replaced with new instances of the characters.
  In this case the Vigormortis that was giving dead Minions their abilities no longer exists, so those Minions lose their abilities and their neighbours become healthy.

  A new Vigormortis cannot reactivate their dead Minions' abilities by attacking their corpses, 
  because attacking an already dead player does not kill them.

Q If the Vigormortis is changed to another Demon (Engineer / Hatter/ Pit-Hag),
  what happens to Minions they previously killed?
A Vigor-killed Minions lose their abilities and neighbouring Townsfolk are no longer poisoned,
  even if the Demon later becomes the Vigormortis again.

Q Does an evil Apprentice or the Alchemist or a Townsfolk / Outsider turned evil (Mezepheles / Bounty Hunter / Cult Leader / Goon)
  killed by the Vigormortis retain their ability and poison a Townsfolk neighbour?
A No, they are not a Minion.

Q If the Vigormortis becomes drunk or poisoned, do any Minions they have killed regain their ability when made sober?
A Yes. It is a present-tense effect, so it is always in effect whenever the Vigor is sober and healthy.

Q Can an evil Townsfolk (Mezepheles / Bounty Hunter / Cult Leader) still be poisoned by a Vigormortis-killed Minion?
A Yes.  The ability only checks whether the player is a Townsfolk; alignment and living status are unimportant.

Q Does a good Minion keep their ability if the Vigormortis kills them?
A Yes, and they poison their nearest townsfolk neighbour in either direction.

Q Can the Vigormortis be in a base zero Outsider game?
A Yes.

Q Can the poisoning due to a Vigormortis killed Minion switch between their two nearest Townsfolk neighbours on different nights?
A No, once the poisoned Townsfolk neighbour is chosen, the poison must remain there.

  The only time the poison can change target is if the poisoned player stops being a Townsfolk, or an intermediate player becomes a Townsfolk.
  In either case the poisoned player is no longer a valid target so the poison must move, in either direction from the Minion, to one of their nearest Townsfolk neighbours.

Q The Vigormortis kills a Minion whose neighbours are non-Townsfolk.  Can the poisoning skip over non-Townsfolk players to poison their neighbouring Townsfolk players?
A Yes.

  Just like with the No Dashii, the poisoning skips over invalid targets until it finds the nearest Townsfolk player.

Q Can a Minion killed by the Vigormortis poisoned a Townsfolk already drunk or poisoned from another source?
A Yes.

  It is fine for a player already permanently or semi-permanently drunk or poisoned (Puzzlemaster / Snake Charmer / Sweetheart) to be poisoned in this way.

Q On an aribitrary deaths night (Pit-Hag / Summoner), if the Vigormortis is spared while the Minion they targeted dies, 
  does that Minion keep their ability?
A ST decision.

  As the deaths tonight are arbirtary,
  the ST is free to use the Pit-Hag / Summoner to block or allow any kills,
  or to cause extra deaths,
  usually with the aim to kill off a Demon for game balance.
  If the Minion chosen by the new Demon dies tonight then the ST can decide to credit the death to the Vigor,
  in which case the Minion retains their ability and one of their closest Townsfolk neighbours is poisoned.
  Otherwise the Minion's death was caused by the Pit-Hag / Summoner in which case the Minion has no ability and there is poisoning.


===============
=Village Idiot=
===============
Q If the Drunk believes that they are the Village Idiot, how many real Village Idiots can be put in the game?
A There are only three Village Idiot tokens in the game, so if one of them is shown to the Drunk,
  then there can be:
  * one additional VI who receives true info;
  * two Village Idiots, one of whom is sober and the other is drunk due to their own ability;
  * zero Village Idiots.

  Because of the token limit it is not possible to have a Drunk who believes that they are a VI and three or more actual Village Idiots.

Q If the Kazali chooses the drunk Village Idiot to be a Minion and there are still two left by setup,
  does the ST move the drunkenness to another VI? 
A The Kazali's picking of Minions happens during [setup], the same time that the drunk VI is chosen,
  so if after the Kazali is done there is more than one VI then one should be drunk to satisify the VI's ability.

Q Can one of the Village Idiots be the Marionette?
A Sure, if they neighbour the Demon or the Recluse.
  If this leaves one true VI in play then that one must be sober.
  If it leaves two, one of them is drunk and the other one is sober.
  The Marionette VI is then run like any other Marionette.

  In order to guarantee the Marionette Village Idiot, an alternative setup of some sort is needed,
  such as substituting the Demon token in the bag with an extra Townsfolk, 
  then on N1 picking a Townsfolk neighbour of a VI to become the Demon.

Q The Philosopher chooses Village Idiot.  How many of the Village Idiots are now drunk?
A The Philo only makes one VI drunk, while one VI is drunk due to their own ability if the games started with two or more VIs.

Q Can the Pit-Hag create additional Village Idiots?
A Yes, if there is a spare token available.  This can cause the drunk VI to change.

Q Can the drunkenness move if the Pit-Hag _removes_ a Village Idiot from the game?
A No, only if another VI is created.

Q If a player gains the Village Idiot ability (Apprentice / Boffin / Cannibal / Philosopher / Pixie) could they be drunk by their own VI ability, gaining wrong info?
A No, they gain sober VI info.

  The drunkenness due to the VI ability is a setup effect.
  Also, gaining the VI ability does not make a player the VI, and the drunkenness specifically targets a VI.
  So, the info from the gained VI ability must be sober,
  unless they are targeted by another form of drunkenness or poison or the ST house rules gained VI abilities otherwise.

Q If the drunk Village Idiot changes character, do they become sober making one of the other VIs drunk?
A They become sober because they are no longer an extra Village Idiot.
  They do not make another VI drunk because the drunkenness is a setup effect and cannot affect the middle of the game.

Q If there is only one Village Idiot, can they be the drunk Village Idiot?
A No, only when there are two or three Village Idiots in the game is one of them drunk due to their ability.
  They can however be _the_ Drunk or believes that they are the Village Idiot.

Q Can extra Village Idiots replace Outsiders?
A No, just Townsfolk.

Q If there are fewer than three Village Idiots in play, can the Demon receive the Village Idiot as a bluff?
A No, because the VI is in play.


========
=Virgin=
========
Q Could an evil Townsfolk (Bounty Hunter / Cult Leader / Mezepheles / ...) trigger the Virgin?
A Yes.  An evil Virgin can be triggered too!

Q What happens when the Virgin is first time nominated by a Townsfolk protected by the Tea Lady?
A The ST announces that the Townsfolk player is executed but does not die and starts the next night phase.

Q If a good Traveller nominates the Virgin will they be executed by the Virgin's ability?
A No. The Virgin only cares if it is specifically a Townsfolk. Alignment does not matter.
  A Traveller is not a Townsfolk, so no matter their alignment it will not work. It will still waste the Virgin's ability though. 

Q Is there another way that Townsfolk A nominates another player X and A becomes executed immediately, except X is a Virgin? 
  i.e. are there any situations for X to simulate the Virgin?
A Potentially:
  # an Atheist game.
  # breaking Cerenovus madness or Mutant madness while nominating to mimic that style of execution.

Q What happens when the first time the Virgin is nominated, the nominator is a Witch-cursed Townsfolk?
A ST choice:
  # the nominator is executed and dies by the Virgin ability: the ST announces "X is executed and dies".
  # the nominator dies to the Witch curse, then their corpse is executed by the Virgin ability: the ST announces "X dies and is executed".

  In both cases the day will be over (barring the Butcher being in play).

  The announcement in the first option is ambiguous,
  hiding the existence of the Witch, which depending on game state might be better for evil.

  The announcement in the second heavily implies something caused the death before the Virgin execution,
  but the option makes the Witch a little stronger:
  * The Undertaker (who only learns about those who die to execution) would not be woken that night.
  * The Cannibal will not gain the ability of the nominator (since players must die due to execution in order to trigger the Cannibal).

  Note:
  * this all still applies in the case of the self-nominating, Witch-cursed Virgin;
  * even though the Devil's Advocate protection prevents dying to the execution, it does not block dying to the Witch's curse,
  so the DA protecting the nominator does not prevent their death,
  but could potentially confuse the Undertaker or the Cannibal as to why their abilities are not triggering as expected.

Q Could the Virgin trigger an execution the second time they are nominated, having been drunk or poisoned the first time?
A No.
  The Virgin's ability can work only the first time they are nominated,
  and if they were drunk or poisoned at the time then the ability is lost and untriggered.

Q If a player who was nominated earlier in the game gains the Virgin ability,
  do they cause a Townsfolk who nominates them to be immediately executed?
A Yes.

  When an ability gainer (Cannibal / Philosopher / Pixie) gains the Virgin ability
  or a player becomes the Virign (Barber / Pit-Hag)
  it is treated as a new instance of the ability that has yet to be nominated since it was gained,
  so should a Townsfolk nominate then an execution is triggered.

Q What happens when the Virgin self-nominates?
A They are immediately executed and die, assuming they are sober and healthy.

  In Trouble Brewing this confirms the Virgin player as 100% good.


========
=Vizier=
========
Q Can the Vizier force a Butcher nomination?
A Yes, in the same way as they can force a standard one.

Q What is the issue with having the Clockmaker and the Vizier on the same script?
A The Clockmaker can be game solving in single Minion games if the Vizier is in play.

Q What is the Courtier jinx with the Vizier?
A If the Vizier loses their ability, they learn this and if they are executed while they have their ability, their team wins.

Q If the Drunk who believes that they are the Investigator sees the Vizier, and the Vizier is actually in play, is the Vizier announced?
A RAW, yes. The Drunk may have the token but they are not actually the Investigator so the jinx would not apply.

Q Is the Fearmonger and the Vizier a broken combination?
A No because as per the jinx, the Vizier wakes with the Fearmonger, learns who they choose and cannot choose to execute that player.

Q The Golem can kill the Organ Grinder but not the Vizier, correct?
A Correct. The Vizier cannot die during the day for any means, unless drunk or poisoned.

Q Can the Vizier force through an execution before the Gunslinger has a chance to shoot?
A Yes.

Q How does the Judge work in a Vizier game?
A The Judge can use their ability during or after votes,
  so might force a success before the Vizier can,
  but cannot force a failure if the Vizier has already forced a success.

Q If the Vizier is the Lleech host, are they unkillable?
A No, they are poisoned and have no ability.

Q If the Vizier forces the execution of the Lleech who obviously does not die, will there more be executions that day or not?
A No, there is just one execution per day that always immediately ends the day, unless the Butcher is in play.

  A player can be executed without dying, and there are some abilities that work interestingly around this concept.
  It is why the Mutant's execution instantly ends the day or why the Cannibal specifies "recently killed executee" rather than just "executee".


Q How does the Vizier work when the Organ Grinder is in play?
A They can attempt to force any execution, but the nominee is only executed if a good player voted on it.

Q What is the Preacher jinx with the Vizier?
A If the Vizier is preached, they learn this and if the Vizier is executed while they have their ability, their team wins.

Q Can the Recluse misregister as evil if they are the only player to vote on an execution that the Vizier attempts to force through?
A Yes, meaning no execution, though this is probably a bad idea as it would publicly confirm the Recluse.

Q If the Vizier forces through an execution, could the Scapegoat be executed instead?
A Yes.

Q If only the good Thief votes for an execution, can the Vizier still force the execution?
A Yes, a negative vote is still a vote.

Q Why is the Town Crier not recommended on a script containing the Vizier?
A It is because the Vizier can completely pollute the Town Crier's information by nominating freely every day.

Q Is the drunk / poisoned Vizier still announced on their first day
  or can the ST make the Vizier believe they are sober and healthy by still announcing them?
A The Vizier remains unannounced (and cannot force through an execution and can die during the day).  
  The Vizier, like the King, is announced during the day the first time that they are sober and healthy if they are still alive.

  Drunk or poisoned players have no ability so can never affect the state of the game,
  even if that means they immediately work out that they are droisoned.
  Maintaining the illusion for that one player is less important than maintaining this basic principle.
  So, the ST may lie to a player that their ability is working but may not lie to the town as a whole that a player's ability is working.

  It is possible, although risky, that the announcement could be put off deliberately for a few days by the Poisoner, similar to the Leviathan's announcement.

Q If the Vizier breaks madness, is he executed?
A The ST can execute them, but they would not die.
  It is probably a bad idea to as it just wastes a day for the good team with no counterplay.

Q Can the drunk or poisoned Vizier die to execution?
A Yes.

Q What happens if the Vizier is created mid game or swaps to another player (Barber / Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / Summoner / ...)?
A All players immediately learn who the new Vizier is, assuming the new Vizier is alive, sober and healthy.

Q If the Vizier becomes a different character (Barber / Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / Summoner / ...) is this announced?
A No.
  The Vizier ability causes an announcement, but there is nothing causing an announcement if they are not one anymore.

Q Assuming good players voted for it, can the Vizier force an execution on herself, ending the day, but not dying?
A Yes.


========
=Vortox=
========
:Alchemist in a Vortox game
Q What does the Alchemist, a Townsfolk, learn in a Vortox game? / Is the Alchemist immune from the Vortox?
A The Alchemist, although they have a Minion ability, is still a Townsfolk and is not immune to the Vortox.
  The Alchemist learns an in play Minion, but has the ability of an out of play Minion,
  as the Vortox causes misinformation but does not change the ability's working.

  For example, in a game with the Witch and the Poisoner in play and the Harpy and the Devil's Advocate on the script,
  the Alchemist learns that they have the ability of the Poisoner while in reality they have the DA's ability. 
  The ST still has to maintain the DA's restriction on not picking the same player twice in a row. 

--------------needs editing
Q Does a sober and healthy Alchemist always have correct waking patterns in a Vortox game?
A Yes.

  They are told the ability of an in play Minion but are treated like the ability they actually have,
  which would be the ability of an out of play Minion. So they have the wake pattern of their actual ability.
  
  The Vortox affects the information part of the Alchemist's ability but not the mechanical part.
  So it is fine to tell them that they have the ability of a waking character,
  but then, as they must then act as their actual ability which means that if it is non-waking, they cannot be woken at night.


Q How does the Alchemist Evil Twin work in a Vortox game?
A The Alchemist Evil Twin incorrectly learns their Minion ability, which has to be an in play Minion ability.
  Then they learn as their twin the incorrect character for a good player.
  So they have learnt:
  * an in play Minion,
  * a confirmed good player,
  * the Demon is a Vortox.

  Note that only the information is affected in a Vortox game, not the mechanics,
  so:
  * an oppositely aligned twin is still correctly assigned,
  which in this situation is an evil aligned Good Twin,
  who wakes to learn any player except the Alchemist as the Evil Twin.
  * evil wins if the Alchemist is executed,
  while good cannot win if both of the Twins are alive.

Q In a Vortox game, the Alchemist is told that they have the Godfather's ability (an information gathering Minion),
  when in reality they have a different Minion ability (say some passive Minion like Boomdandy or Scarlet Woman).
  What do they learn regarding Outsiders?
A The Alchemist is just told that they have the Godfather ability, but then nothing else because they do not actually have the Godfather ability.

Q In a Vortox game, what does the Alchemist Godfather learn?
A She falsely learns that she has a different Minion ability, that is in play.  She is then shown out of play Outsiders.

Q In a Vortox game, the Alchemist has a passive Scarlet Woman ability,
  but thinks she has the Poisoner ability. Should she be woken every night?
A No.
  It is not the same as a 'you think' like the Drunk or the Marionette who are constantly lied to.
  She should just get false information at the start,
  so N1 she is told an incorrect ability but then treated like she would be for her actual ability.

Q Would an Alchemist with the Spy or the Widow ability see an incorrect Grimoire in a Vortox game?
A The Alchemist cannot have the Spy or the Widow ability as they are jinxed combinations. 
-------------------------------

Q In a Vortox game, does the ST lie to the Amnesiac about their guesses?
A Yes.  For example, if they asked if their ability was to do with voting and it was not should then the ST should give them a warm/hot.

Q Is the Apprentice affected by the Vortox?
A No.

  Travellers get true information in a Vortox game.
  An Apprentice getting info from a Townsfolk ability is not a Townsfolk player, they are a Traveller player.

Q How does the Vortox affect the Balloonist's information?
A They see players of one type for the entire game.

  The first night they are woken and shown any player.
  All of the players that they learn on following nights must be of the same type as this first player.
  Typically Townsfolk are shown to avoid running out of uniques players to show.

  Note that characters that can misregister (Recluse / Spy) as other types _cannot_ change the character type that the Balloonist must see in this game.
  For example, if they saw the Spy as a Townsfolk last night and they are registering as an Outsider today, the Balloonist must still see a Townsfolk tonight.

---Old Balloonist worked like this:
---A Each Balloonist reminder token is placed next to a character that is not that character type,
---  so the Balloonist basically just gets four arbitrary names.

---  Note that the four names the Balloonist learns cannot be one Townsfolk, one Outsider, one Minion and one Demon.

Q Is the Banshee's death still announced in a Vortox game?
A Yes.

Q Does the Vortox with a Townsfolk info ability granted via the Boffin learn false info?
A No.

  The Vortox although they have a Townsfolk ability is not a Townsfolk so 
  any info gained from their ability
  (Artist / Chef / Dreamer / Empath / Fisherman / Fortune Teller / Grandmother / Investigator / Librarian / Ravenkeeper / Sage / Savant / Seamstress / Undertaker / Washerwoman)
  is unaffected by their own falsifying ability.

Q How does the Bounty Hunter interact with Vortox misinformation?
A They learn a good player, and when that good player dies, they learn another good player.
  Even if the Vortox is killed, drunk, poisoned, etc., the BH is only shown a new player after the death of the shown good player; 
  the BH never gets their information corrected.

  In general, when the BH is shown a player they will only ever get a new name when that player dies, regardless of that player's actual alignment.

Q How does the Cannibal work in a Vortox game? 
A Any info learned with an info gathering ability must be false.
  This includes any info gained with an Outsider ability, such as the Puzzlemaster, since the Cannibal is still a Townsfolk.

Q Does the Cannibal learn that they have the Butler ability in a Vortox game?
A Yes.

-------------------combine
Q If the Dreamer selects the Vortox, what characters can the ST show them?
A The good player can be any good player.
  The evil player cannot be the Vortox, but can be any other Demon or can be a Minion.

Q What can the Dreamer see in a Vortox game?
A They must still see one good and one evil character for they player they choose, neither of which is the player's true character.

  The Vortox forces information to be false, it does not change the format of the info, so the Dreamer could not see two evil characters or two good characters.

Q In a Vortox game, can the Dreamer targeting a good player be shown the Vortox as their evil character?
A Yes, but showing the Vortox is rarely a good idea though.
----------------------------

Q Is the Duchess affected by the Vortox?
A No. The Vortox affects Townsfolk abilities. The info source, the Duchess, is a Fabled so unaffected by the Vortox, even if it is a Townsfolk receiving the information.

Q Does the Vortox learn of the Exorcist or the King?
A The Vortox correctly learns that the Exorcist / King are in play but always learns the wrong person.

Q In a Vortox game, what should the Fortune Teller get when they hit their Red Herring?
A They would get a "no".

  The Red Herring registers "as a Demon" to the FT.
  So if the FT picks the RH, as far as the ability is concerned that is the Demon,
  so they would get a "no" in a Vortox game.

  While this is the official ruling it is still contenious
  so if the ST would like to rule otherwise they can do so,
  just as long as they are clear with their players how they run this interaction.
C https://discord.com/channels/569683781800296501/570048154720796682/831208066845245455

Q Is the Gambler affected by the Vortox?
A No.  The Gambler ability is a mechanical ability unaffected by the Vortox which only affects information gathering Townsfolk abilities.

Q Is the Gossip affected by the Vortox?
A No, the Gossip is not considered to be an information gathering character.

Q How is the Grandmother run in a Vortox game?
A They still have a good player as a grandchild and will die if that player is killed by the Vortox,
  because that is a mechanical effect, which the Vortox cannot falsify.  However, the info about their grandchild must be falsified:
  * they could be shown the correct player but incorrectly learn their character,
  * they could learn the grandchild's correct character but be shown the wrong player,
  * they could learn both the incorrect player and the incorrect character.

Q What can the Investigator see in a Vortox game?
A Either:
  * an in play Minion but two incorrect players;
  * a Minion player and a good player but the wrong Minion.

  As long neither of the players learned is the character learned,
  then the statement that "One of these two players is this specific character" is a false statement.

Q If the Monk protects the King, does the Vortox learn who the real King is?
A Yes.

Q What does the Knight learn in a Vortox game?
A The Knight learns two players one of which is the (or possibly a) Demon.

Q Can the Lunatic learn true info in a Vortox game, this Minion is a Minion, the King is the King, ... ?
A Yes, the Lunatic as an Outsider is unaffected by the Vortox falsifying of info.
  It is up to the ST whether this is a good idea.

Q D1, a Minion is executed while the Minstrel is in play, so the Vortox is drunk. If on D2 no one is executed, does the evil team win?
A ST choice; it could go either way.

  Two actions that occur at dusk would attempt to happen at the same time:
  * At dusk tomorrow, all players made drunk by the Minstrel become sober; the ST removes the EVERYONE IS DRUNK reminder.  
  * Each dusk, if no player was executed today, the game ends and the evil team wins.

  This is an order of operations issue.  Whichever happens first loses the interaction.

  One interpretation:
  The Vortox will be drunk until dusk. 
  The day ends with no execution, then dusk happens, so the Vortox is still drunk at the point they otherwise would have won.
  They do not become sober until that start of the night phase.
  The game continues.

  Alternative interpretation:
  First the Minstrel's tokens are removed, then the Vortox wincon is checked - evil wins.

  Given that the Vortox was drunk up until literally that moment, arguably it makes more intuitive sense that they would fail to win the game.

Q Does the Monk protected player receive true info in a Vortox game?
A Yes. They are safe from the Demon in all aspects, including secondary effects, assuming they are sober and healthy.

Q Who must the Monk protect for the Nightwatchman's pick to correctly learn the Nightwatchman in a Vortox game?
A The Nightwatchman, because they are the source of the information;
  in a Vortox game, if the Nightwatchman is Monk protected when they choose a player, that player correctly learns the Nightwatchman.

--- Pretty sure this is correct: the wrong player is still shown the NWM token, not a random character.
  Usually in a Vortox game, the Nightwatchman picks a player who then learns someone else as the Nightwatchman.
  The Monk protection can stop the Vortox from making info false,
  but in order for the target to learn the correct player as the Nightwatchman,
  it is the Nightwatchman as the source of the ability that needs to be protected when they use their ability, not their target.
  If the target is Monk-protected then the misinformation is not prevented.

Q In a Vortox game there are two players with the Nightwatchman ability.
  If only the first player uses their ability, is it legal to show their target the second player?
A Yes, since it would be false info that the second player with the Nightwatchman ability used their ability.

Q What does the Noble learn in a Vortox game?
A They can see anything but two good players and one evil player, including all evil players.

Q Does the Vortox have any effect on the Philosopher choosing an ability?
A No.  The Vortox only affects Townsfolk info abilities while mechanical abilities, such as the Philo choosing a character, are unaffected.
  Only any information the Philosopher might gain via their new ability would be affected.

Q The Philosopher picks the Damsel ability in a Vortox game.
  Do the Minions still learn the Damsel is in play?
A Yes.

  Being targeted by an ability (Damsel / Exorcist / King / Nightwatchman / Preacher / ...) is not falsified in a Vortox game,
  though any information that goes along with it would be
  (in the case of Nightwatchman, Exorcist, and King that is the learning of a player),
  though that does not apply to Damsel (even filtered through Philosopher), so they just simply learn the Damsel is in play.

Q Does the Philosopher Puzzlemaster guessing incorrectly learn the Vortox?
A No.

  The Vortox forces false info, not flipped,
  and since a wrong Puzzlemaster guess already yields false info they remain unaffected by the Vortox.

Q How does the Pixie interact with the Vortox?
A The Pixie learns an out of play Townsfolk.
  An arbitrary player is marked whose character does not matter.  The marked player could in fact be a Minion, but probably should not be the Demon.
  If the marked player dies, the alive, sober and healthy Pixie would gain the ability they were shown if they were sufficiently mad as that character.
  Any information gained from their new ability is affected by the Vortox's falsifying of info.

Q How does the Pixie work when the Vortox is N1 drunk or poisoned and later sober and healthy?
A If the Vortox is N1 drunk or poisoned then the Pixie will correctly see an in play character.

  If the Vortox is later sober and healthy when the Pixie's marked Townsfolk dies,
  then the Pixie gains the ability that they saw, 
  which if it is an info ability will be affected by the Vortox.

Q What do the evil team learn if the Poppy Grower dies in a Vortox game?
A Minions must learn non-Demons as Demons and Demons must learn non-Minions as Minions.

  Because the info is coming from a Townsfolk ability, RAW it must be falsified.
  So each eligible player must be told incorrect info,
  which can be satisfied by showing the Minions and the Demons only good players,
  but evil Townsfolk, if there are any, can be shown.

  This interaction is not universally loved so is commonly:
  # worked around: in a 2+ Minion game, have each Minion see another Minion as the Demon and the Demon as a Minion;
    the Demon will still have to learn non-Minions as their Minions but will at least know their info is wrong.
  # houseruled: have the evil team learn each other correctly even in a Vortox game.

  If the ST is going to use the first option they might as well be using the second option.

Q What is the Savant told in a Vortox game?
A Two false statements.

Q What could the drunk Savant be told in a Vortox game?
A Drunkenness and poisoning have no effect on the info received in a Vortox game; the Vortox forces all info to be false.
  _The_ Drunk who believes that they are the Savant is unaffected by the Vortox due to being an Outsider, so their statements can be
  both true, both false or one true and one false.

Q Who does the Steward learn in a Vortox game?
A An evil player.

Q Is the Vizier announcement affected by the Vortox?
A No, players know that the Vizier is in play since the announcement is a mechanical effect that cannot be falsified by the Vortox. 

Q Does a good player still learn the non self-poisoning Widow in a Vortox game?
A Yes. The Vortox only affects Townsfolk abilities and the ping comes from the Widow, which is a Minion.

Q Are Townsfolk with a non-Townsfolk ability affected by the Vortox?
A Yes.

Q Are Outsider abilities affected in a Vortox game if they are gained by a Townsfolk (Cannibal / Philosopher)?
A Yes, Townsfolk who gain an Outsider ability are still affected by the Vortox's falsifying of information:
  * the Cannibal / Philosopher Snitch causes each Minion to learn three in play characters;
  * the Vortox learns the wrong player as their Cannibal / Philosopher Lunatic and the wrong player(s) for their pick(s);

Q Does an evil Townsfolk (Mezepheles / Bounty Hunter / ...) still receive false info in a Vortox game?
A Yes.

:what is falsifiable in a Vortox game?
-----------------reword
Q The Alchemist Fearmonger in a Vortox game ...  does the ST announce that the Fearmonger has picked a new player?
A Yes.

  Public or even private announcements are not information.
  Only _who_ is information for the purposes of the Vortox.

  For example:
  * preached Minions still learn they have been preached,
  * exorcised Demons still learn they have been exorcised (they just learn the wrong player),
  * the Philosopher-Damsel would still inform the Minions that the Damsel is in play.

  So the ST should still announce that the Fearmonger has selected a new player.

Q How does the Nightwatchman ability work in a Vortox game?
A The target of the Nightwatchman / Philosopher Nightwatchman / Cannibal Nightwatchman / Pixie Nightwatchman wakes up
  and learns that they were picked by the Nightwatchman but is shown the wrong player.

  The Vortox says Townsfolk abilities yield false info
  and info passing characters such as the Nightwatchman are ruled that the ability name/type is not part of the Vortox'd information -
  "someone with the NWM ability chose you" is a mechanical explanation of why someone woke up,
  and [ST points to a player] is the information.

Q The Vortox kills the Sage.  Who does the Sage see?
A Two players, neither of whom is the Vortox.

Q Does the Soldier, who is safe from the Demon, correctly learn the Nightwatchman if picked in a Vortox game?
A No. The source of the information is the Nightwatchman and they are not safe from the Demon.

Q When a player is D1 executed but does not die, the Undertaker does not wake, but does the Oracle wake to learn whether it is a Vortox game?
A Yes.

Q In a Vortox game that contains both the Damsel and the Philosopher Damsel, what do Minions learn?
A Minions learn that the Damsel is in play.

  Being woken due to an ability to learn an ability affected you or is in play
  is a mechanical aspect not affected by the Vortox; only learning specifically who is.
  
  Consider similar interactions in Vortox games:
  * a Minion that is selected by the Preacher is still told that they have been preached.
  * the Demon picked by the Exorcist learns of this but learns the wrong player.
  * the Demon learns that the King is in play, but not the correct person.

Q The Magician Vortox interaction... does it work the same way as Philosopher Lunatic in a Vortox game, where the Demon learns a wrong name?
A No. 
  The Magician already gives false information because she appears as a Minion. So, with a Vortox or with another Demon, there is no difference.

Q If the Vortox dies and the game continues for whatever reason,
  is the Vortox ability now nullified and thus all information reverts back to being true, barring drunkenness and poisoning?
A Yes. Players lose their ability when dead, so the Vortox's ability of forcing false Townsfolk info is no longer in effect.

Q Would the Alchemist Pit-Hag in a Vortox game make people learn the wrong character?
  Or is that not 'information'?
  What about the Alchemist Cerenovus?
  What about Minions that make a public announcement like the Vizier and the Fearmonger,
  would the ST announce incorrect information?
A A player learning their character, their alignment, or what character they are mad as is never information for the purposes of the Vortox.

Q In a Vortox game what do preached Minions learn?
A That they were chosen by the Preacher, same as in a non-Vortox game.

  A player learning that they were chosen by an ability is not regarded as info so not falsified by the Vortox.
  However, learning _who_ picked them is information, and that is that part that would be falsified.
  Such Townsfolk abilities in a Vortox game requires the wrong player to be shown:
  * the Nightwatchman's target learns the wrong player as the Nightwatchman;
  * the exorcised Vortox learns the incorrect player as the Exorcist.

Q Is it possible to learn true information in a Vortox game due to a character misregistering (Recluse / Spy)?
A Yes.

  It was previously thought not, but since the ruling that the Fortune Teller's Red Herring yields a 'no' in a Vortox game,
  the consensus is that this implies that the Vortox can flip information after accounting for any form of misregistration.

  For example:
  * the Empath sat between a good player and the Spy registering as good should ordinarily receive a zero, but the Vortox can flip this to a one, which is true info.
  * the Chef seeing the Recluse as evil can see a pair when there are in fact no pairs in the game, but the Vortox can flip this to zero pairs, again true info.
  * the VI who checks the Spy registering as good or the Recluse registering as evil will have their incorrect info flipped by the Vortox so learns their true alignments.

  This is a controversial interaction, so the ST is free to rule differently, they just need to make sure their players now how they are running it.

Q Can the Fibbin cause a Townsfolk to get true information in a Vortox game?
A Yes.

  The Fibbin causes incorrect info, not false info,
  so if the info is supposed to be false, the Fibbin can make it true instead.

Q If the Fool does not die by execution for the first time, does it count as a successful execution for the Vortox?
A Yes, any execution will satisfy the Vortox's condition, even if it does not lead to death.

Q Are Vortox proof complex questions allowed?
A RAW, it is legal, but many storytellers, including the game's creator, do not allow them since they break the spirit of the game,
  and the ST has enough to deal with as it is.  If the ST and the group consider them acceptable then go for it.

  An example of such: is only one of these statements true:
  # the Demon is a Vortox
  # <a regular Artist question>

  where the answer to the whole question will be "yes" if the answer to the regular question is "yes" and "no" if "no" regardless of whether the Vortox is in play or not.

  The ST is always free to answer "I do not know" if they consider the question too complicated.

Q Does executing a corpse enough to prevent the Vortox winning?
A Yes.

  The Vortox only cares whether an execution happened today, not whether there was a death by execution.


========
=Voudon=
========
Q How is the Voudon run if they are drunk or poisoned at the time of nominations?
A Nothing is announced so it is up to the town to figure out that the Voudon ability is malfunctioning.
  Votes count as normal and dead players voting use up their dead votes.


=============
=Washerwoman=
=============
Q Can the Washerwoman see two Village Idiots?
A Yes.

Q Can the Washerwoman see an Outsider?
A No. Their ability specifies they know a Townsfolk is one of two players.


=======
=Widow=
=======
Q If the Widow is swapped to another player (Barber / Hatter) what happens?
A As a new instance of the Widow they get to look at the Grimoire and poison a player.
  There is no fresh Widow ping as a good player already knows that the Widow is in play,
  unless that player was turned evil in the meantime.

Q Does an Investigator seeing the Widow satisfy the requirement that one good player knows the Widow is in play?
A No, the Widow must also send out a separate ping to any good player, although this can still go out to the Investigator.

Q What happens when the Widow is regurgitated or resurrected by the Shabaloth or the Al-Hadikhia?
A They see the Grimoire for a second time and get to poison a player for the rest of the game.
  Their original pick who became healthy when the Widow died remains healthy, unless the Widow picked them again.
  There is no second Widow ping, unless the player who received the first ping is no longer good.

Q The Pit-Hag creates the Widow.  Does the Widow see the Grimoire that night or the next?
A That night; it is their first night, so they should be immediately woken and shown the Grimoire.

  Note that the Widow is not an info gatherer that must wait for poisoners and killers to act first.
  They have a mechanical ability that lets them see the Grimoire and poison someone as soon as they come into play.

Q When does the Widow get to poison in a Poppy Grower game?
A After the PG dies and they see the Grimoire for the first time; they do not get to poison blind N1, not even themself.
  This means that the Widow announcement is guaranteed to go out on their first night,
  and not on the death of the PG which would confirm the PG.

Q What happens if the Widow is preached?
A If the the Widow is preached on their first night then they do not get to ever look at the Grimoire or poison a player,
  even if the Preacher later dies or becomes drunk or poisoned,
  since it is only on their first night that they can do this.
  Additionally no good player learns that the Widow is in play,
  but should the Preacher ever die or become poison or drunk while the Widow is still alive, sober and healthy then a good player is informed of the Widow.

  If instead the Widow is preached on a later night
  then the target of the Widow's poisoning is temporarily healthy while the Preacher is alive, sober and healthy.
  The ST can indicate this by turning the Widow's reminder token next to the poisoned player upside-down for as long as the preaching is in effect.

Q If the good player who knows the Widow is in play turns evil (Cult Leader / Goon / Mezepheles),
  and the Widow still has their ability, does a new good player get pinged?
A Yes, a new good player is woken and shown the Widow character token.

Q If the Widow is created mid game (Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / ...) when does a good player get told?
A A good player learns of the Widow that night.

Q Does the Widow know which good player is told that they are in play?
A No.

  The player is decided after the Widow makes their choice.  Also there is no 'knows' token for the Widow to see in the Grimoire.

Q Does the Widow's "one good player knows you are in play" mean that if a good character knows that there is a Widow via their own ability (Investigator)
  the Widow ping is not sent out?
A No, the Widow ping should still go out.

Q What happens when the Widow self poisons?
A No good player learns that the Widow is in play.


=======
=Witch=
=======
Q If the Witch cursed player tries to nominate an already nominated player, do they still die?
A They should not die, as the nomination is not valid.
  However mistakes happen, so if the player mistakenly nominates and then the ST were to mistakenly act on the Witch curse,
  the best solution is for the ST to admit there was a mistake made, apologise, and continue on as best they can,
  with the player dead.
  The ST could ask if they would like to nominate someone else instead but they are staying dead regardless.

Q The Witch curses a player in the night before being killed.  Is the curse still in effect?
A No, their ability is lost on death, unless the Witch was killed by the Vigormortis so they retain their ability.


=============
=Yaggababble=
=============
Q What is the Exorcist jinx with the Yaggababble?
A If the Exorcist chooses the Yaggababble, the Yaggababble ability does not kill tonight.

Q Earlier today the Yaggababble said their phrase.
  After they are shot by the Slayer, could the Slayer die too, if the game continues (Evil Twin / Scarlet Woman)?
A Yes.
  It likely confirms it is a Yaggababble game though.

Q If the Scarlet Woman says the Yaggababble phrase and then the Demon is executed, is there a kill?
A They could cause a kill if the ST gives them that phrase,
  but they are a new instance of the Yaggababble so they could also be given a different phrase and not cause a kill.

Q On N3, the Summoner chooses a Yaggababble, who is then given a phrase by the ST.
  If the player had already said that phrase prior to becoming the Yaggababble, is there a kill tonight?
A Yes, based on the Scarlet Woman becoming the Yaggababble similarly being allowed to kill.

Q How is the Yaggababble affected by drunkenness and poisoning?
A The Yaggababble cares about being drunk or poisoned at the time that they would kill, not when they say their phrase.
  So if they say their phrase while drunk or poisoned but are sober and healthy that night then they can still kill.
  This is similar to how the Gossip is run.

  If the Yaggababble is drunk or poisoned on their first night they should still learn the correct phrase.


========
=Zealot=
========
Q Does a player made Cerenovus mad as the Zealot still have to vote if eyes are closed due to the Organ Grinder?
A ST decision, but arguably no, since no one sees their vote and they would not need to vote to uphold their madness,
  but they should either publicly suggest that they voted on every nomination or at least not suggest that they did not.


=========
=Zombuul=
=========
Q If the Zombuul loses its first life, would an Oracle's number rise by one? 
A Yes.

Q Does the Scarlet Woman become the Demon after the Zombuul dies for the first time?
A Yes, so there will be two acting Demons, which makes SW and Zombuul a bad combination.

Q Can the Snake Charmer choose the Zombuul who is registering as dead?
A No, the Zombuul registers as dead to the SC's ability which requires that a living player be selected.

Q If the Zombuul neighbouring the Tea Lady dies for the first time, do they register as the TL's neighbour?
A No.

Q If the Zombuul is registering as dead and there are only two other players are alive, does evil win?
A No, the Zombuul registering as dead does not count for evil's win condition.

Q If the Zombuul that has not already died once is killed while drunk or poisoned, what happens?
A The drunk or poisoned Zombuul dies for real even if they have not used their extra life,
  ending the game unless there is a reason for it to continue (Evil Twin / Mastermind / ...)

Q In a Zombuul game, if a dead player is executed again, would the Zombuul wake the following night to kill?
A Yes, the Zombuul's ability checks whether a player died, and dead players cannot die.

Q The first time a Zombuul is executed, do they still wake at night to kill, if no other player dies that day?
A No, their "death" registers even to their own ability so the following night they do not wake.

Q If a dead player becomes the Zombuul (Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / Summoner / ...) do they return to life as a registering as dead Zombuul?
A Only if they became the Zombuul via the Summoner, as per the jinx, in which case they are treated as the Zombuul that has died once.
  Otherwise that player is the genuinely dead Zombuul, meaning the game might end with a good win,
  since it is only the Zombuul's ability allowing it to misregister as dead that gives them a second life,
  and dead players do not have abilities unless specified otherwise.

Q Is the once-killed Zombuul who either swaps with a Minion (Barber) or becomes another Demon (Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag)
  just the dead version of her new character?
A No, she is alive but remains appearing as dead.
  Nothing in the ability prompts the ST to announce anything about her life/death status
  since her status has technically not changed.
  As a result the town do not know to flip her life token back over:
  in person, the town square is maintained by the players, not the ST,
  and online the ST simulates what the players would do.
 
  From the players' perspective nothing has changed,
  but abilities that care about living status are affected: she does not register as dead, so abilities can see, choose and impact her.

  The Zombuul does not mix well with character changers; it is kind of awkward no matter how it is run.

Q Does the "dead" Zombuul have a ghost vote?
A Yes.

Q Can the "dead" Zombuul vote more than once?
A No.

  After their first vote while registering as dead they would lose their ghost vote and may now not vote again.

Q The Zombuul is executed.
  Then, the Engineer picks another non-Zombuul Demon from the script.
  How does nominating and voting work for the former Zombuul?
A When the Zombuul dies for the first time they:
  * are given a death shroud,
  * have one dead vote for the rest of the game,
  * register as dead,
  * cannot nominate, and
  * do not count towards the majority needed to execute.

  When swapped, the former Zombuul
  * still keeps their death shroud but
  * can vote freely,
  * no longer registers as dead,
  * can nominate,
  * affect the number of votes needed to execute

  As soon as they start nominating and voting freely they are outed, so they probably do not want to do that.
  The number of votes needed for execution could also tip off town that there is a fake dead Demon somewhere.

Q What happens if the Zombuul registering as dead is drunk or poisoned?
A There is no immediate visible effect.  The game continues because importantly the Zombuul has never actually died.
  But they are not announced as alive,
  so the Town Square, which is the players' responsibility, is not updated by removing their death shroud.
  
  But they no longer register as dead to abilities concerned with living status:
  * the Empath and Tea Lady abilities would no longer skip over them;
  * they no longer register to the Oracle.

  Whether they can now be deliberately targeted by abilities that specify a living player (Chambermaid) as their target is debatable,
  as this strays into the trying to cheat area.
  
  The number of votes required to put someone on the block does not change,
  although some STs run it that it does,
  which might tip off town to the existence of a drunk or poisoned Zombuul.

Q Does a Traveller's exile count as a death for the Zombuul?
A Yes, so the Zombuul does not wake.

  Even if the Traveller travels away from the game before the end of the day and there are no other deaths,
  the Zombuul still does not wake because a player died that day.

Q Does the Zombuul kill if a player was executed today but did not die?
A Yes, if no one else died for any other reason.

  This can happen when the executed player is:
  * the unspent Fool;
  * protected (Devil's Advocate / Sailor / Tea Lady).

Q Does the Zombuul registering as dead still need a vote token to vote?
A Yes.


===============================================================================================================
==      _____                                 _     _       _                            _                   ==
==     | ____| __   __   ___   _ __   _   _  | |_  | |__   (_)  _ __     __ _      ___  | |  ___    ___      ==
==     |  _|   \ \ / /  / _ \ | '__| | | | | | __| | '_ \  | | | '_ \   / _` |    / _ \ | | / __|  / _ \     ==
==     | |___   \ V /  |  __/ | |    | |_| | | |_  | | | | | | | | | | | (_| |   |  __/ | | \__ \ |  __/     ==
==     |_____|   \_/    \___| |_|     \__, |  \__| |_| |_| |_| |_| |_|  \__, |    \___| |_| |___/  \___|     ==
==                                    |___/                             |___/                                ==
===============================================================================================================


:Fang Gu / Pit-Hag:  
Q If the Pit-Hag changes the Demon to the Fang Gu,
  could an arbitrary kill of an Outsider count as a Demon kill causing a jump?
A If the Fang Gu chooses to kill an Outsider, the ST can allow that to go through.
  Otherwise players the ST chooses to kill are killed by the Pit-Hag, so no Fang Gu jump.

Q If the Pit-Hag creates a Fang Gu and the arbitrary kill at night kills an Outsider, can that cause the Fang Gu to jump? 
A If the Fang Gu targeted that Outsider, the ST can choose to allow the kill to go through and thus the Fang Gu to jump.
  The ST can also choose to block the Fang Gu's choice of an Outsider and have them die to the Pit-Hag with no jump.

  Or, of course, the ST can block the kill entirely and not kill the Outsider to either ability.

  If the Fang Gu did not target an Outsider, then there cannot be a jump;  any Outsider death tonight is to the Pit-Hag's ability not to the Fang Gu's.

Q The Pit-Hag turns another Minion into the Fang Gu.  The new Fang Gu targets an Outsider.
  As deaths are arbitrary tonight, is the jump blocked, or is it legal to kill off the old Demon, and allow the jump to happen, killing off the first Fang Gu
  and the targeted Outsider becoming the new evil Fang Gu?

A Each Demon's choices are still taken, which the ST does not have to abide by, 
  with any arbitrary protections or deaths occurring from the Pit-Hag.

  It would therefore be valid for the Fang Gu's jump to be processed as per usual,
  with the newly created Demon dead and the Outsider converted, on top of the arbitrary death of the original Demon.

  However, it would not be legal to kill the Fang Gu and have some other random unselected Outsider converted instead.

  In full, the ST's options are:
  # The Fang Gu kills the Outsider, so the jump happens i.e. the normal Demon kill goes through; any other deaths are due to the PH.
  # The Fang Gu does not kill the Outsider, so there is no jump and the Outsider remains alive i.e. the PH's "deaths are arbitrary" ability
  # The Fang Gu does not kill the Outsider, but the Pit-Hag does, so the Outsider dies but there is no jump i.e. the PH's arbitrary deaths ability

Q If the Pit-Hag creates the Fang Gu and then the Fang Gu chooses an Outsider at night, and the ST allows his kill to go through,
  does this also make the Fang Gu jump? Does the kill come from the Pit-Hag's ability or not?
A Either. The way Pit-Hag arbitrary deaths works is that the ST can block any kills (or not), and can cause new kills originating from the Pit-Hag.
  If the ST allows the Fang Gu kill to go through, it jumps. If they prevent it but then kill that player anyway with the Pit-Hag ability, then there is no jump. 

Q If the Pit-Hag changes the Demon into the Fang Gu, can the Fang Gu jump that same night?
  Does the Demon's choice matter at all that night or, because of the Pit-Hag's deaths are arbitrary ability, are all deaths caused by the Pit-Hag instead of the Demon?
A The ST can allow the Fang Gu to jump.

  ..ST's options are as follows, assuming the new Fang Gu chooses an Outsider when deaths are arbitrary:

  If the new Fang Gu targets an Outsider then, since deaths are arbitrary, the choices are:
  # the chosen Outsider is PH protected and does not die;
  # the chosen Outsider is PH protected and does not die, but then is PH killed, so no jump;
  # the chosen Outsider dies to the Fang Gu, so the jump happens.

  "Deaths are arbitrary" means the ST can allows deaths go go through, or not go through.
  So if the ST allows the Demon's choice to go through, that one is an attack from the Demon, not the PH,
  and if the ST blocks it, then it is treated similarly to the player being protected from the Demon that night.
  Any "additional" deaths are considered attacks from the PH.


:droisoning:
Q While drunk or poisoned could a player's mechanical ability have an unintended effect or work in the opposite way to what is expected, 
  such as the Slayer slaying a non-Demon,
  the Tea Lady protecting an evil player, ...
A No.

  Drunk or poisoned players cannot affect the gamestate in any way.
  The game no longer describes drunkenness and poisoning in terms of an ability malfunctioning as it can lead to such incorrect interpretations.
  Nor is correct to  describe a player as having no ability; the player still has an ability, it just does not do anything.

Q If a once per game ability or ability that only activates once is used or triggered while drunk or poisoned, is the ability used up?
A Yes, the ability is considered spent; the player does not get another attempted use of their ability when they become sober and healthy.
  An info gathering ability (Artist / Fisherman / Ravenkeeper / Sage / Seamstress) will likely yield incorrect info,
  while a mechanical ability (Assassin / Barber / Courtier / Engineer / Fool / Golem / Hatter / Juggler / Klutz / Moonchild / Nightwatchman / Philosopher / Professor / Slayer / Virgin) will not work.

Q Can a drunk or poisoned player gain true info from their ability?
A Yes, unless the player is a Townsfolk and it is a Vortox game.

  While drunk or poisoned info gained is arbitrary and occasionally the ST will want to give true info.

  However, when there is an active Vortox, 
  any Townsfolk abilities,
  regardless of whether they are affected by drunkenness (Goon / Innkeeper / Philosopher / Sailor)
  or poisoning (Poisoner / Widow),
  must gain false info.

Q If the Harpy picks while drunk or poisoned, is their target still informed that they were targeted?
A No, abilities have no effect while drunk or poisoned.

Q If the Preacher was drunk when he chose a Minion, will that Minion be preached when the Preacher becomes sober?
A No.  Mechanical abilities used while drunk have no effect on other players.

Q If a player that wakes at night is drunk or poisoned, could the ST just skip them?
A No, drunk / poisoned players are never skipped. The ST should deceive them that their abilities are functioning normally,
  otherwise it would confirm to the player that they are either drunk or poisoned.

Q The Marionette has a special case for when the Preacher picks them that their ability stops working
  and the ST pretty much ignores them at night since thinking they are a Townsfolk is their ability.
  Could the same logic apply to the Drunk or the Lunatic being drunk or poisoned? 
  Or would that be too powerful and against the never reveal the Drunk unofficial rule?
A With drunkenness and poisoning, the goal is for the ST to still pretend their ability is still working,
  which for the Drunk / Lunatic means still pretending that they are the character that they think they are.
  So drunk and poison are not very similar to being preached.

Q Are there any characters that can make players sober and/or healthy? 
A There are:
  * A Barista one can make another player sober and healthy for the night they are chosen and the following day,
  * The Beggar makes herself sober and healthy at all times,
  * The Monk can protect from/remove a Demon's poisoning for one night (No Dashii / Pukka / Lleech / ...).

Q Can the poisoned Demon kill people? 
A No. Poisoned characters have no ability.

Q What would happen if someone who is drunk gets poisoned?
A No real difference as they do the same thing.
  They do not stack but it is still important to track both in case one ends before the other. They are sometimes even used interchangeablyas "droisoned".

Q Poisoned is similar to drunk right?
A Poisoning and drunkenness mechanically work the same. 
  If an ability makes a player drunk or it makes a player poisoned, it has the same effect. 
  So, information is arbitrary and mechanical based abilities do not work at all.
  
  Being drunk and being poisoned are technically different for the purposes of Savant statements and Artist questions,
  although usually those would involve saying "drunk or poisoned" to catch all cases.

Q If the Poisoner becomes the Imp after the Imp self-kills, when is the poisoning removed?
A As soon as the Poisoner becomes the Imp.

  The Poisoner acts early in the night order, before the Imp, so still targets a player.
  The poison is then removed when the Imp self-kills; the ST removes the reminder token from the Grimoire and the target is now healthy.
  If the poisoned player acts between the Poisoner and the Imp that night then the poison still has an effect.

Q If a character is poisoned, they become healthy if the character that is causing them to be poisoned no longer has an active ability. 
  How does this apply to a Snake Charmer, or does it not?
A The SC poisoned by another character would become healthy if the other character was drunk, poisoned or dead. 
  If the SC poisons themself, infinite poison loops are resolved by applying the poison.

Q Can poisoning reapply? If a Courtier chooses the Imp but is poisoned on the second night of their ability, is the Imp sober or drunk on the third night of the ability?
A If droison would be applied while the character is themself droisoned, it is not.
  If the ability was applied while sober and healthy, the reminder token is flipped upside down, 
  the target is temporarily sober/healthy and when the droisoner regains their ability, it continues to apply.
  So in this example the Imp is made drunk once again for the third night of the Courtier's ability.

Q What happens when the drunk / poisoned Philosopher tries to gain an ability?
A Their once per game ability is spent and they do not gain the ability they chose, and do not make the corresponding character drunk if they are in play.
  While they remain drunk or poisoned, 
  the ST deceives them that they have a functioning ability, waking them each night if appropriate.
  Additionally, the Mathematician is pinged each night they use the ability they do not actually have.
  Once they are sober and healthy, the ST can no longer deceive them and must treat them as the spent Philo with no ability.

  Conversely, if the Philo was sober and healthy when they chose, then the ability is gained for the rest of the game.
  If they later become drunk or poisoned then they may receive false info, if they gained an info ability,
  or their ability will fail to work at all, if they have a mechanical ability.
  The ST could even stop waking them up to simulate them having no ability through being drunk or poisoned when they chose,
  but when they become sober and healthy, they resume waking as their ability functions normally.


:demon:
Q When there is more than one Demon alive, who kills first?
A Who wakes first to kill is determined by the night order.
  If there is more than one of the same Demon then the ST chooses the order in which to wake them.

Q Does a Demon created after N1 kill the same night that they are made (Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / Summoner)?
A Yes.

  The asterix in a Demon's ability only applies to N1 so any Demon created after N1 can act the night that they are created.

Q If the only living Demon is good, does good win?
A No.  The good team must kill all living Demons, regardless of their alignments,  in order to win.
  A final three consisting of two Demons, even where one is good, evil wins automatically,
  unless the third player happens to be a sober and healthy Mayor and they do not execute.

Q Can the Demon attack dead players?
A Yes.

Q Can there be more than one Demon in play at the start of the game?
A Only in a Legion or a Riot game.

Q If there are multiple Demons in a game, do all of them have to die for good to win?
A Yes.

Q Can a multi-kill Demon (Al-Hadikhia / Po / Shabaloth / ...) attack the same player repeatedly on the same night?
  Where an ability specifies choosing multiple players (Chambermaid / Fortune Teller / ...) can the same player be picked more than once?
A No, any ability that specifices choose X players means choosing X different players.
  If a Demon wish to sink kill(s) then they must choose dead players.

Q What happens when a multi-kill Demon (Al-Hadikhia / Po / Shabaloth) picks a protected player?
A This will likely depend on the source of the protection and the order of the Demon's picks. 

  If that player is protected due to their own ability (sober Sailor / Soldier) then they cannot die no matter who else dies that night.

  If the protection is due to another player (Innkeeper / Monk / Tea Lady) then that player cannot die, as long as source of the protection remains alive.
  This means who and the order of the Demon's picks is important:
  * If the source was not selected by the Demon, the protected player cannot die.
  * If the source was selected after the protected player, the protected player survives but then the source, barring any other forms of protection, will die.
  * If the source was selected before, then on their death (which includes choosing to die to the Al-Had), the protection is removed,
    and the target of their protection is no longer safe.

  In the case of the Al-Had,
  all picks are publicly announced and the players still have to make a choice
  and if all three players choose live,
  or all three are alive at the end of their choices,
  then all three die in the order that they were selected.
  Again, the order of death matters: the protected player survives if the source of the protection was picked afterwards (or not at all).

Q If a multi-kill Demon (Al-Hadikhia / Po / Shabaloth) kills two players where the first killed player was making the second drunk,
  is the drunkenness removed before the second kill?
A Yes.

  The order of the kills is important: as long as the player causing the drunkenness dies before the drunk player, then the drunk player becomes sober.
  
  For example, the Philo-drunkenness is removed if the Philosopher dies before the original of the character.
  So if the Philo-Ravenkeeper and the Ravenkeeper both died in that order on the same night then they would both get sober info.

Q Demon bluffs ... what is allowed / recommended?
A The Demon should be shown three characters that are safe for her to bluff as, to avoid double claiming a good player.
  These characters should:
  * be any combination of Townsfolk and Outsiders; two Townsfolk and one Outsider is pretty common,
  * out of play
  * not be Minions; bluffs must be _good_ characters
  
  It is strongly recommended that whatever characters the Drunk or the Marionette believe themself to be are not given as bluffs;
  although out of play, the Demon might not appreciate receiving these!
  Additionally, some STs would consider it illegal to do so; the argument is that the Demon should see three out of play _tokens_.
  But if the group is experienced it could be attempted, perhaps to signal to the Demon who the Drunk is.

Q In a game with no Outsiders, can Demon bluffs include an Outsider?
A Yes.

  If there is Outsider modification then the Demon could bluff as an Outsider.
  In Trouble Brewing the evil team can use this to imply that the Baron is in play and someone is the Drunk.

Q If the Demon changes player
  (Barber / Fang Gu / Hatter / Imp / Lil' Monsta / Pit-Hag / Scarlet Woman / Snake Charmer / ...),
  what does the new Demon learn?
A They learn:
  * what Demon they are;
  * that they are evil, if they were previously good.
  
  Additionally they are told if applicable:
  * the King,
  * the Marionette,
  * the Lunatic, along with any picks that they make each night.
  
  The Marionette, the Lunatic and the King are all "the Demon knows who you are" abilities,
  so the new Demon learns any that are currently in play and alive, sober and healthy that they have not previously been informed of.

  The new Demon does not learn any bluffs or the Minions, as this info was given in the Demon info step which already happened,
  unless it was skipped because of an in play Poppy Grower,
  in which case all Minions and Demons learn each other when the last sober and healthy PG ability dies.

Q Can the Demon receive as one of their bluffs the character chosen N1 by the Philosopher, who acts earlier in the night?
A Yes, the Philo's pick has no effect on Demon bluffs.

  The Philo only ever gains the ability, she does not turn into the character, so the character remains out of play.

  Any character out of play on setup can be given as a bluff,
  and if the Philo chose one of those bluffs then it is just unlucky for evil if they do not pretend to have poisoned info.
  
  The Philo is before N1 evil info just so that she can take the Poppy Grower or Magician abilities which would affect evil info.

Q If the Demon is drunk or poisoned N1, can they get bad bluffs?
A No, because getting bluffs in not due to the Demon's character ability, and so cannot be disabled by them being drunk or poisoned.

Q Do the Demon and the Minions learn each other's character during the Demon and Minion info steps?
A No, just they just learn who is on the evil team, not specific characters.


:voting:
Q If a player dies in between their vote being noted by the ST and the vote concluding, does their vote still count?
A Yes.

Q In case of the Cult Leader starting a cult, are all good players supposed to join including the dead players, or only the alive ones?
A Including dead players.
  Cult forming (like exiling Travellers) is not a regular vote.
  Dead players are included and dead votes are not used.

  Abilities that specify voting and nominating (Flowergirl / Organ Grinder / Town Crier), are not triggered,
  since the game defines votes as players raising their hands for executions only.

Q Is an exile an execution?
A No.

  Exiles are not executions so:
  * they do not require or use a vote token;
  * they require a majority of all players, not just living players;
  * do not end the day;

  Additionally an exile does not interact with any ability that specifies executions, voting or nominating so:
  * the Demon supporting an exile does not alert the Flowergirl;
  * a Vortox win is still possible if there are no executions today;
  * the Organ Grinder does not force the call for exile to be conducted with eyes closed;
  * a Minion supporting an exile does not alert the Town Crier.

Q Can Travellers be nominated for execution, perhaps to satisfy the Vortox?
A No.  Any player can call for the exile of a Traveller but cannot nominate them for execution, not even their corpse.

  The only way for a Traveller to be executed is via:
  * a madness break,
  * the Scapegoat,
  * the Apprentice Spy nominating the Virgin

  These are then treated as regular executions: they are announced as executed, they die and the day ends.

Q Does the Flowergirl read the Cult Leader votes as well as votes from nominations?
A No, the Cult Leader does not use votes, only raised hands.

Q If someone dies during the day (Harpy / Tinker / Witch / ...), does this change the number of required votes,
  and can this put people on the block who were previously safe,
  having just gotten not quite enough votes before those players died?
A An execution requires the majority of living players to vote and to have the most votes of the day,
  and at the end of a vote, a player is declared as about to be executed or not.

  While players dying can lower the number of votes required:
  * any nomination still needs to have more votes than any other in order to put someone on the block,
  * there is no impact on nominations that have already happened - whether someone is on the block or not is determined immediately in that moment,
  and any previously safe player is still safe.

  For example, if player X gets five votes and that is not enough and then players die or travel away meaning five would be enough now, player X is still safe:
  they are not retroactively put on the block 
  and another player would still need at least six votes in order to be put on the block.

Q Does a resurrected / regurgitated player get a ghost vote if they used it while previously dead?
A Yes, each time a player dies they get a ghost vote token.

Q Can a player die (Cerenovus / Harpy / Slayer / Tinker / .. ) during a vote?
A Yes.

  Nothing really stops that,
  but on a practical level it is unlikely for the Storyteller to action deaths as they are too busy spinning around in a circle counting votes.
  It would probably be best to conclude the vote before resolving player killing abilities.


:player conduct:
Q Is it allowed for the evil team to openly and loudly communicate their plans during the night phase in crucial game-winning moments?
A Sure, there is no rule against it.

Q What can players say during the night phase?
A Players can say whatever they want but with a few exceptions
  like not narrating what actions the ST does at night.
  But if a player wants to give someone advice what to do at night based on info that was known the previous day that is fine,
  or as a Minion lean over to their Demon and tell them who they should kill.

Q Player A is made mad that player B is evil.  
  Another player suspects A is mad and asks her to prove if she is mad or not by saying something that could get her executed for breaking madness.
  Would saying something like "I am mad that player B is evil" count as breaking madness, despite her keeping madness the rest of the time?
A The ST should not consider this a madness break.
  
  Player A is doing that in an attempt to convince the town that they are not mad, and the intent and sincerity of their madness is still retained.
  Intent matters a lot more for madness than the words someone says.

  The group might want to address this issue together as asking someone who is mad to break it to prove that they are mad runs against the spirit of madness.
  
  All madness related abilities, except for Pixie, are phrased with "might" to stop the evil team from exploiting 
  forced executions from the Cerenovus and forced deaths from the Harpy
  in ways which go against the spirit of the characters.
  With the Mutant the "might" is used to ensure that it functions as an Outsider by making the execution happen at an inconvenient time for good.

Q What happens when the Klutz or the Moonchild do not pick anyone when they learn that they have died?
A The ST should privately remind them in case they forgot.
  If they continue to not pick, that is considered cheating, and should be dealt with however the group best sees fit.


:travellers:
Q Do evil Travellers learn if the Demon changes?
A No.

Q Can a player travel out and then back in?
A Yes.

Q Do evil Travellers count as the one extra evil player for the Spirit of Ivory?
A No.

  An exception might be made for a Traveller who starts good and is made evil (Mezepheles).

Q Does a dead Traveller get a ghost vote?
A Yes.

  After a Traveller is exiled they count as being dead and are given one ghost vote.

Q Do Travellers count for the majority needed to put someone on the block?
A Yes.  Execution needs half the number of living players minimum, and Travellers are living players.

  For example, with one Traveller alive plus 12 other living players, at least seven votes are needed for a player to be executed.

Q Can an exiled Traveller call for the exile of other Travellers?
A Yes, any player can call for an exile.

Q Do abilities that check neighbours (Cult Leader / Empath / ...) skip Travellers?
A No, travellers count towards all abilities unless specified otherwise.
  For example:
  * an Empath sat between an evil Traveller and a good Townsfolk will receive a one;
  * an evil Traveller could turn the Cult Leader evil.

Q Can Travellers from any script be added to a game?
A Yes, but consider their impact carefully as not all Travellers work well outside of their home scripts.

Q Do Travellers get a defence after a call for their exile?
A Yes.

Q Does the Spy / Widow learn Traveller alignments?
A Yes, if the Traveller is in play when they see the Grimoire.
  Traveller tokens are placed normally if they are good aligned otherwise they are placed upside down if they are evil.

Q When can an exile be called for?
A At any time during the day, though it seems reasonable to wait for players to be assembled in town rather than make them come back from private chats to run the call for exile.

Q Can there be two of the same Traveller?
A No.

Q What happens if the Apprentice Philosopher Snake Charmer chooses the real Demon?
A By default, nothing, because normally a Traveller cannot become a non-Traveller, which makes the Snake Charmer a poor choice for the Apprentice.
  However, if the optional rule that players can become Travellers and vice versa is used,
  then the Apprentice would become the Demon and publicly lose their Traveller status
  and the Demon would become the Apprentice, which everyone would know and ultimately makes Snake Charmer a poor choice for the Apprentice.
  A good example of why Apprentice is recommended for Bad Moon Rising and not Sects and Violets.

Q If a Traveller breaks Cerenovus madness, would they be exiled?
A No, they would be executed ending the day.

Q Can Travellers be made mad by the Cerenovus or the Harpy?
A Yes.

Q Do Travellers count as alive players for the Chambermaid ability?
A Yes.

Q Can the Devil's Advocate save a Traveller from exile?
A No. The DA can only save a player from dying to execution but exiles are not executions.

Q Can a good Traveller become a Farmer?
A Under standard rules Travellers cannot change characters so an alive good Traveller cannot become a Farmer.
  However, if the variant where this is allowed is used, 
  then when a Traveller becomes a Farmer their life token in the Town Square is changed from a Traveller one to a standard one.

Q If the Apprentice Goblin claims Goblin while they are executed, does evil win?
A No.

  To satisfy the Goblin ability the claim must be made after they are nominated, but Travellers cannot be nominated for execution,
  so it is not possible for the Apprentice Goblin to claim a Goblin win.

Q If a good player is babysitting Lil' Monsta are they still seen by an evil Traveller?
A Yes.

Q If a Traveller is turned evil (Mezepheles) are they shown the Demon?
A No, only Travellers who start the game evil learn the Demon.

Q Can the Pacifist save a Traveller from exile?
A No. The Pacifist can save a player from dying to execution, and exiles are not executions.

Q Can dead players call for a Traveller to be exiled?
A Yes.

Q Are there any character abilities that can influence whether a call to exile a Traveller succeeds or not?
A Yes:
  * the Tea Lady ability works on all good players including Travellers
  * the Apprentice Vizier cannot be exiled
  * the sober Apprentice Sailor cannot be exiled

Q Does a Traveller being drunk or poisoned have any influence on them being exiled?
A Only when their ability would normally have saved them from exile (Apprentice Vizier / Deviant).

Q When do Travellers act in the night order?
A All of them act first if they act at night before any other characters,
  except for the Apprentice which will act at the turn in the night order of the ability she has. 

Q Can Travellers nominate? 
A Yes, they are treated the same as regular players.

Q In a game with multiple Demons (Legion / Riot / ...) what does an evil Traveller learn?
--BEST_GUESS
A RAW are unclear on this.
  The ST can decide whether to show just one Demon player or all living Demon players to the Traveller, since all living Demons are defined to be "the Demon".

  As with all unclear rulings, the ST should choose one, ensure players know how they handle it and be consistent.

Q If a Traveller joins the game is their role immediately known to everyone or is it secret?
A Everyone knows what Traveller they are for as long as they are a Traveller.

Q Can Travellers deadvote?
A Yes, after exile they have one dead vote like other dead players.

-----------------combine
Q Does the King include Travellers in the 'dead outnumber the living'?
A Yes. If they were not, the ability would say so, like the Scarlet Woman's does.

Q Do Travellers count for the King's ability?
A Yes, same as with votes, they always count for the total player alive number except for evil's win condition.
------------------------

Q Do Travellers count towards evil's win condition of surviving to final two?
A No

  If at any time there are only two non-Travellers alive then evil's win condition is met,
  assuming that either they are the Twins or one of the two is the Demon.

Q If the final four is three evil players plus a Traveller, does the game end?
A No, as long as the Traveller is good.
  If the Traveller is exiled then the game ends.

Q If a Traveller voted on a nomination prior to their exile on the same day, does their vote still count?
A The votes for a nomination are immutable as soon as they are recorded by the ST.

  The exiled Traveller's votes prior to their exile still count for that day.
  If a player is on the block then then number of votes needed for execution must still exceed however many votes were used on them to move it to someone else.

  An exiled Traveller is still in the game, they are just dead,
  and they have one vote from the time they died, the same as any other dead player.

Q Does the Demon learn if a Traveller who has just joined is on their team? 
A No, the Demon never learns the alignment of a Traveller.
  An evil Traveller, however, does learn who the Demon is,
  so they can go ahead and tell the Demon as much
  though the Demon may not believe them - they could just be good and fishing!

Q Do evil Travellers learn the Demon in Teensyville?
A Yes, but Travellers in a Teensy is pretty unbalanced.

Q Why are Travellers not recommended for six players?
A They are not really recommended for seven or less because at those numbers, the Traveller's ability/alignment may have too much of an impact balance-wise,
  and the game will be going pretty quickly anyway. 

Q Can Travellers be targeted by the Demon at night?
A Yes. Any ability that says players includes Travellers unless stated otherwise like Dreamer.

Q If a Traveller is exiled, do they still retain a place in the circle affecting neighbours? 
A Yes. If they travel away, on the other hand, then they actually leave the game.

Q If a Traveller travels away, is their character considered to still be in play?
A No.  The ST removes their tokens and any ability they had or effects caused by them are gone, including anything "even when dead" related.

Q Do Travellers count towards the majority needed to execute?
A Yes, if they are alive.

Q If a Traveller with an ability that effects setup (like an Apprentice Balloonist or Apprentice Baron) is in the game during setup,
  do their setup effects happen?
A Yes.

Q Can players pick Travellers with their abilities?
A Yes, if the ability just states player any player is valid.
  Any abilities that do not allow Travellers being chosen will specify it,
  such as the Dreamer's ability which states "not Travellers".

  Character changing abilities (Barber / Pit-Hag/ Summoner/...) are a special case.
  The default rule is that Travelers cannot become non-Travelers and any ability that would try to change their character gets a headshake no and a prompt to choose again.
  There is an optional rule that Travellers can become non-Travellers so if the ST, the group and the Traveller are okay with it then the swap can happen,
  but if it was not discussed prior to the game start then it is best to not allow it.


:madness:
Q Does a player learn when they are no longer mad due to the Cerenovus or the Harpy?
A No, players only learn when they _are_ mad.
  Each day that a player is mad they are informed the previous night.

  A player only knows for sure that they are not under madness if they are not woken during the night and told that they have been selected by the Cere or the Harpy.

  If a player is informed of madness and then the madness ends that same night they are not informed,
  so they may well fulfill the conditions of their madness without realising that there is no risk of a madness break.
  This can happen when the source of the madness dies, swaps character, becomes drunk or becomes poisoned.

Q If a player dies in the night because of a madness break (Cerenovus / Harpy / Mutant), is this announced?
A Yes, executions are always announced. Their death would not be announced until the morning though, assuming it did also cause a death.

Q Is multiple madnesses just a death sentence? 
  e.g. the Mutant, made Cerenovus-mad as an Outsider, is just dead no matter what they do?
A It is a tricky situation for the Mutant for sure but is up to the ST,
  who possibly might consider the game state, on whether to execute or not.

Q After a player is executed for breaking madness (Cerenovus / Mutant) does that count as the single execution and immediately ends the day?
A Yes, unless the Butcher is in play.

Q After the Pixie successfully gains the ability they saw are they no longer mad so
  a true Savant statement could be "no players are currently mad"?
A No.

  "Madness" is a Clocktower term that means "trying to convince people of something".
  Some characters like the Pixie interact with madness,
  but an ability that interacts with madness is not needed to be mad.
  Anybody who is trying to convince players of anything in the game is being mad,
  so the statement "no players are currently mad" will always be false!

  Modifying the statement to "no players are interacting with madness currently",
  is a valid true statement after the Pixie fulfills their goal.


:misc:
Q If a player becomes a Demon or a Minion do they learn the evil team?
A No.

  Demons and Minions learned each other during the evil info step happens during N1.
  Once this stage has passed the only mechanical way for them to learn each other is for the last active Poppy Grower ability to die.

Q If an ability gainer (Alchemist / Cannibal / Philosopher / Pixie / ...) gains an ability
  and is later transformed (Barber / Pit-Hag / Summoner) into a new character,
  do they keep the gained ability?
A No, as they no longer have the ability that allowed them to gain the additional ability.

Q Can dead players be nominated on any script?
A Yes.

  Nominating dead players is common when the Demon is suspected to be the Vortox or the Zombuul.
  Otherwise on a simpler script, players might nominate a dead player simply to extend the day.

Q Does a player with a day-use ability have to declare their character to use their ability?
A Yes.

  The game defines public as "anything said or done in such a way that most players, as well as the Storyteller, know that it happened."
  It is not enough to say "I use my ability on X";
  no one can know what has happened if a player does not state their character, so they have to claim what ability is being used.

  For instance, the Psychopath must specify how they are picking the Damsel player in order for the ST to resolve that pick correctly!

Q What are the Alchemist Vizier and the Cannibal / Philosopher / Pixie with a "learn/know who you are" ability learned as?
A Abilities are self referential, so when an ability says they learn who you are it means the ability, not the actual character of the player.
  So:
  * the Alchemist Vizier is announced as the Vizier;
  * the Cannibal / Pixie / Philosopher with the Nightwatchman ability is shown as the Nightwatchman;
  * the Cannibal / Philosopher Lunatic is learned as the Lunatic
  * the Cannibal / Philosopher / Pixie with the King ability is learned as the King.

Q If there are two players left alive at night,
  but there remains the possibility of dead players being resurrected / regurgitated (Al-Hadikhia / Professor / Shabaloth / ...) that night,
  does the game continue?
A No, the game ends as soon as there are only two living players left alive.

Q A Minion bluffing to be a Townsfolk shares info with town they claim they received privately from the ST.
  The town asks the ST if this is true.
  How should the ST respond?
A The ST can neither confirm or deny these kinds of things, and that is how they should respond.
  The town must decide if they believe the Minion's claim and their info or not.

Q Can a player ask the ST at any point in a private chat to confirm their alignment?
A They can ask, but the ST is only required to tell them if it has changed,
  so they can often expect a response of "You have not been informed of an alignment change" or some such.
  The ST may clarify for newer players and just tell them their alignment, but they may not,
  and clarification should not be expected on scripts that have characters like the Lunatic or the Marionette.

Q If the last three consists of only evil players but one is a Townsfolk, is that still game over?
A Most likely. But if unsure the ST can ask them if any would like to nominate, though the evil Townsfolk will likely decline anyway.

Q How does the ST indicate that a character has an alignment different to their character token?
A Their token is turned upside down in the Grimoire.

Q Is a player who is turned evil (Cult Leader / Goon / Mezepheles / ...) now considered a Minion?
A No, they remain their character type.  Alignment and character type are separate concepts.

Q Can abilities target dead players?
A Most can with some exceptions.

  Where any ability text says "choose a player" a dead player is still a player,
  so can target the dead the same way as the living.
  When an ability can only target the living it will explicitly specify this, such as the Chambermaid's.

  It is allowed corpses to be attacked with killing abilities,
  which is something the Demon might choose to do to mislead the good team about which characters are in play.
  But if a player went into the night phase already dead and are attacked they are not announced as having died in the morning,
  since dead players cannot die again.

Q Does an ability gainer (Cannibal / Philosopher / Pixie)
  with an "even while dead" ability (Banshee / Heretic / Politician / Puzzlemaster / Recluse) keep that ability when they die?
A Yes, they lose their regular ability but keep any "even while dead" ability.

Q If an already dead player is attacked they cannot die, but is anything announced about this to Town in the morning?
A No.  Their are only ever announcements regarding changes in living status, either alive to dead or dead to alive.
  If a player goes to sleep and wakes up with the same living status, nothing is announced.

Q If an alignment changer (Cult Leader / Goon) dies while evil, are they evil for the rest of the game?
A Yes, they are dead so no longer have an ability that can flip their alignment to good,
  unless it reactivates via the Bone Collector, resurrection or regurgitation (Al-Hadikhia / Professor / Shabaloth).

Q Does a Townsfolk or Outsider player flipped evil (Mezepheles / Bounty Hunter / ...) have any effect on character checkers?
A No, the player turned evil is still whatever character and character type they were previously so, for example:
  * they can be shown to the Balloonist as that type,
  * they can be shown to the Librarian/Washerwoman as that token,
  * the Juggler can get a number from them,
  * the Gambler can gamble them as their character and not die,
  * the Undertaker still sees their character token.

Q Is it possible to play with a group of 20 people?
A Yes, that is the maximum player count which is not played often: 15 residents and 5 Travellers. 

Q When a character with a 'no ability' reminder token dies (Fisherman / Artist / ...), is that token placed in the Grimoire?
A No, only after they have used their ability.
  When a player dies a death shroud is placed on their token which, except for abilities that persist on death, already indicates that they have no ability.

Q If a "you think you are" character (Drunk / Lunatic / Marionette) is changed (Barber / Fang Gu / Pit-Hag / ...) to the character that they think they are, are they told?
A Yes, all players learn when they change their character, including those that think they are something else.

Q Can a regurgitated / resurrected (Al-Hadikhia / Professor / Shabaloth) player still act the night that they are brought back?
A Yes, if they wake after the ability that brought them back,
  or they have a first night ability in which case they wake up after they have had a chance to be potentially made drunk, poisoned or killed.

-------------generalise
Q Does a player who is regurgitated / resurrected (Al-Hadikhia / Professor / Shabaloth)
  having already used their once per game ability
  (Artist / Assassin / Courtier / Engineer / Fisherman / Nightwatchman / Philosopher / Professor / Seamstress / Slayer / ...)
  or ability that only activates once
  (Barber / Fool / Golem / Hatter / Juggler / Klutz / Moonchild / Ravenkeeper / Sage / Virgin / ...)
  get another use?
A Yes.

  They are treated as a new instance of the character so it is as if the game has reset for them, even though their ability says once per game.

Q Are once per game abilities
  (Artist / Assassin / Courtier / Engineer / Fisherman / Nightwatchman / Philosopher / Professor / Seamstress / Slayer / ...)
  usuable by only one instance of the character?
A No.

  If a new instance of a character with a OPG ability is created via a character swap or resurrection / regurgitation
  (Al-Hadikhia / Barber / Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag / Professor / Shabaloth /...)
  then they get to use it, regardless of whether any previous instance used it,
  with the of the Fang Gu whose jump is a global once per game ability.

  The ST should remove the reminder token due to the previous instance from the Grimoire to indicate that the ability has refreshed.

Q What do Minions learn during Minion info?
A Assuming there is no Poppy Grower or Magician ability in play and this is not a Teensyville game, they are informed of
  * the Demon;
  * their fellow Minions, but not the Marionette;
  * the Damsel, if in play.

  The Marionette, although a Minion, does not learn anything during Minion info.

Q Can misregistration affect setup, for example the Spy misregisters as an Outsider meaning the Baron only adds one extra Outsider,
  or the Recluse misregisters as a Minion meaning one fewer Minions?
A No, misregistration can only occur after the characters are in play.

Q If a backward looking character (Cannibal / Flowergirl / Gossip / Mathematician / Town Crier / Undertaker) comes into play
  (Damsel / Pit-Hag / Philosopher / Pixie / ...) does their ability come into effect the same night that they are created?
A Yes.

  If the ST is considering making the Damsel a backward looking character 
  then they should use the appropriate reminder tokens (correct gossip, Demon voted, ...) throughout the game
  so that the information is ready to give out when the change happens.

Q If a new instance of a character with [setup abilities] (Balloonist / Baron / Bounty Hunter / Choirboy / Fang Gu / Godfather / Vigormortis / ...)
  enters mid game (Alchemist / Apprentice / Barber / Cannibal / Damsel / Engineer / Hatter / Philosopher / Pit-Hag / Pixie / ...), do these effects still happen?
A No, setup abilities have no effect if they come into play after setup.
  Generally, when a player gains an ability mid game, any "you start knowing x" or "X knows who you are" happen, but any [setup ability] does not.

  So for example a new instance of the:
  * Baron [+2 Outsiders] does not turn Townsfolk into Outsiders;
  * Bounty Hunter [1 Townsfolk is evil] does not turn a Townsfolk evil;
  * Balloonist [+1 Outsider] ability does not turn a Townsfolk into an Outsider;
  * Choirboy [+the King] does turn someone into the King

  There are exceptions due to jinxes:
  * the ST gaining the Baron ability via the Plague Doctor does turn two Townsfolk into Outsiders
  * the Engineer creating Legion [most players are Legion] turns multiple players into Legion
  * the Engineer or the Pit-Hag creating Riot [all Minions are Riot] turns evil players into Riot
  * the Philosopher gaining the Bounty Hunter ability might turn a Townsfolk evil

  Also an Apprentice with [setup abilities] in play from the start of the game does affect the setup.

Q Can the Drunk who believes that they are the Alchemist Mezepheles be deceived into believing that they have turned themself evil? /
  Can the Drunk who must belive that they are a Townsfolk also be deceived about their alignment? /
  Can an alignment changer (Cult Leader / Goon) who is drunk, poisoned or the Drunk be deceived with a non-existent alignment change?
A Yes, but don't.

  Outside of an Atheist game, lying to a player about their alignment is not recommended as it rarely fun.
  However, nothing stops the ST from doing so,
  but they should exercise caution, erring on the side of not doing so,
  unless they are quite sure that the player/group would enjoy that kind of thing.

Q What does it mean when two characters are hate jinxed?
A Only one jinxed character can be in play.  Typically it is because the characters just fundamentally do not work together.

  These pairings include:
  * Riot and Exorcist
  * Riot and Flowergirl
  * Riot and Minstrel
  * Godfather and Heretic
  * Spy and Heretic
  * Widow and Heretic

Q Are good Minions (Barber / Pit-Hag) affected by characters such as the Hatter and the Minstrel?
A Yes.  Any ability that affects Minions will apply regardless of alignment unless otherwise stated.

Q After a player dies the ST does not reveal their identity, but is the dead player allowed to make their role public during the day phase?
A Anyone can say anything at any time including the dead.

Q What happens if there are only evil players left alive?
A The game can end if there is no reasonable path to victory for good.

  The are some situations where the game will still need to play out:
  * the Banshee has their ability;
  * the Heretic is on the script;
  * the Ogre is unsure of their alignment;
  * the Marionette could still nominate their Demon ...

Q Is it allowed to drunk Outsiders with roles such as the Puzzlemaster, Innkeeper, Sailor and Sweetheart?
A Yes, but the ST probably should prioritise drunking Townsfolk when they can.

Q An evil player approaches the ST and informs her of what he is bluffing as,
  just in case a character checker (Dreamer / Gambler / Harlot / Juggler / Ravenkeeper / Undertaker / ...) picks them.
  Is that okay?
A Not only is this acceptable, it should be encouraged.
  Players can tell the ST whatever they want and it is up to the ST whether they use that.

  Evil players have a better chance if they communicate their plans to the ST.
  With character checkers, especially when drunkenness and poisoning happen, the ST will want to use what they learn,
  and it really helps to build plausible deceptions.

  Good players can, and often should, also tell the ST their plans and information; they are allowed to scheme as much as evil players.

Q The final three consists of the Demon, the Marionette who still believes that they are good player, and another evil player.  Does the game still go on? 
  What about when the final three consists of the Lunatic who still believes that they are the Demon and two evil players?
A The end is only shortcut when there is no way for good to win anymore.
  If the outcome of the game is still uncertain, such as when there are players who are uncertain of their alignment, then the game must continue:
  if the Demon is nominated then there is always a chance for the good team to end up winning.

Q Does the game end if the Demon is on the block, but then only two players remain alive, due to for example the Gunslinger?
A Yes. The game ends with evil winning in that situation.

Q If a player dies and is resurrected / regurgitated in the same night, what does the Storyteller announce to Town?
A Nothing.

  The ST only announces visible changes to a player's life/death status.
  So if Town went to sleep with a player alive,
  and that player is alive in the morning,
  Town does not learn anything. 

  However,
  if the player has a start knowing ability or a trigger on death ability, then it would activate again, so they would probably figure out what happened.

Q Does a player who is resurrected / regurgitated then immediately killed again learn this?
A No, most of the time.

  The player is not informed, nor is there an announcement in the morning, since the ST only announces visible changes to a player's life/death status.
  So any player who is revived and killed in the same night is unlikely to learn this.
  Any "you start knowing" characters will be dead before they get to use their ability again,
  while any "when you learn that you are dead" abilties do not apply, since the players have not relearnt this.
  
  However, abilities that trigger on death might be triggered, so:
  * the Ravenkeeper getting another use of their ability may surmise that they were revived and killed in the same night;
  * the Sage getting two new players would likely figure out that they were revived and then killed by a Demon in the same night.

Q Can a repeated instance (Al-Hadikhia / Barber / Cannibal / Pit-Hag / Philosopher / Pixie / Professor / Shabaloth ...) 
  of a "you start knowing" character
  (Alchemist / Bounty Hunter / Chef / Clockmaker / Grandmother / Investigator / Knight / Librarian / Noble / Pixie / Shugenja / Steward / Washerwoman / ...)
  get the same info as the original instance did?
A Yes.

  As a new instance of that character they can either receive the same info as the old instance or different.
  The ST will likely choose based on game balance.

---------------combine
Q If a "you start knowing" character is swapped to another player, does that player get any info?
A Yes.  As a fresh instance of the ability they can gain info that night, but only after drunking, poisoning and killing roles act.

Q When do 'you start knowing' characters
  (Alchemist / Bounty Hunter / Chef / Clockmaker / Grandmother / Investigator / Knight / Librarian / Noble / Pixie / Shugenja / Steward / Washerwoman)
  get their info when mid game they are created / regurgitated / resurrected / picked by the Philosopher / eaten by the Cannibal / swapped to another player?
A After drunkenness, poisoning and killing abilites have acted; there is always a chance they are killed, drunk or poisoned before they receive their info.

  The info received by the ability can be different to that received by any previous instance of the ability in the game.

Q When in the night order are characters with first night info abilities woken if they are created mid game (Cannibal / Damsel / Philosopher / Pit-Hag / Pixie / ...)?
A After any killing, poisoning and drunk causing roles act.

Q If a player with first night info is resurrected or regurgitated, and they get woken again,
  do they learn new info matching their character description, or does it stay the same?
A ST choice. 

  For example a resurrected Grandmother is treated as a new Grandmother and can get a new grandchild.
  If a new one is assigned, only the new grandchild being killed by the Demon triggers her death.
  Additionally, the new grandchild could be dead, protecting the Grandmother from being able to trigger their own death.
  
  For other first night info characters, if the info has not changed, they should technically be wakened and given the same info.
  It matters for several reasons, including droison, dying later, or being checked by the Chambermaid.

Q If a first night character gets revived, when are they shown their info?
A They get their new "starting" info after the poisoning and killing roles get to act.

  The Professor already acts after the poisoning and killing roles act,
  so if the Professor revives a night 1 role, they get their info immediately. 

  A dead N1 role may be revived by the Al-Hadikhia but then die again because all three chosen players picked live. 

  An Al-Hadikhia or Shabaloth revived N1 role may also be sniped by the Assassin or other killing role before getting their new info.
------------

-----reword
Q Since good wins on tie, why does executing the Good Twin while the Evil Twin is alive and the Demon dead result in an evil win?
A Ability trumps over general game rules.
  So if two abilities cause a game tie, then the good one will win.
  If there is an ability game end condition and a regular game end condition, the ability wins out,
  such as the Evil Twin ability trumping the no Demons alive win condition.
  If two regular game end conditions are met at once, it is a tie and good wins.
  There are some exceptions for if it is impossible for one team to win, but the Evil Twin in SnV is not one of them.

Q In a six player game there is already one Outsider,
  but if the Baron is added and there is only one other Outsider on the script,
  such as is the case with No Greater Joy,
  is only one more Outsider added?
A Yes.
  In general, there can only be a maximum of the number of Outsiders that are on the script, because players cannot have duplicate tokens.
  So even if there is Outsider modification that equals up to having six total Outsiders in play, if the script only has four Outsiders on it, only four would be in play.
  This does not come up in most scripts though;
  the Baron in a six player Teensyville with only two Outsiders on the script is probably where the limit being hit is most often seen.

Q What exactly are jinxes?
A Jinxes are official special rules indicated by the Djinn fabled
  that should be followed like regular games rules.
  They fix issues or weird interactions between two characters
  that make one character useless, OP, or nonsensical due to the other.
  Modifing the rules slightly allows the affected characters to work together properly or makes the game more fun.

  The BotC app puts in the Djinn automatically for scripts with jinxes and it cannot be removed.
  With in person play it helps to announce these special rules at the start of the game.

  Jinxes are not the same as house rules in that the ST cannot create jinxes but they can create house rules.

Q A "gained" ability disappears when the ability that caused the player to gain it leaves play, right?
  So the Cannibal eating the Philosopher and choosing the Pixie would not keep the Pixie ability after another execution.
A Correct, once the Cannibal gains a new ability, they lose the Philosopher ability meaning they lose the Pixie ability.

Q Could more than one person get the same token, such as the Marionette and the Drunk both receiving the same Townsfolk token?
A This is not possible in an official capacity without the Bootlegger Fabled character in play
  and would require putting the same token in multiple times.
  If intending to use the Marionette to pull this off then it also needs one of those tokens to fall next to the Demon (or Recluse),
  or using the Gardener Fabled to assign characters.

Q Do dead characters register for abilities that refer to in play or not in play (Alchemist / Philosopher / Pit-Hag / Plague Doctor / Snitch ...)?
A Players who are dead are still their character, and so are still in play.
  * the Philosopher who gains the ability of a dead character means that character is dead and drunk
  * the Pit-Hag who wants to create another Barber will first have to change the dead Barber to some other character
  * after the Plague Doctor dies the dead in play Fearmonger means the Witch cannot gain this ability, unless all Minion abilities are in play
  * the Pit-Hag turning the dead Fearmonger into the Witch means the Alchemist can no longer have the Witch ability

Q What happens if the game gets to a final two with a good Demon and a Townsfolk?
A Evil wins.

Q In a final two that includes the Demon does evil still win if there are enough dead votes to successfully nominate and execute the Demon?
A Yes, evil's win condition is that two, or fewer, players are alive so evil instantly wins. 
 
Q If two characters ever have the same night ability, is there an order for which activates first?
A No, because certain examples of this can cause issues if run one way, and others cause issues if run the other way.
  The ST should use their best judgement to choose the order that is least likely to cause a severe disruption to the game state.

Q In a base zero Outsiders game with a Vigormortis (-1 Outsiders) and Balloonist / Godfather / Sentinel  (+1 Outsiders) in play,
  can there be an Outsider?
A Yes, if the modifiers are applied sequentially:
  choose for the -1 to be in effect first (making it zero Outsiders, since zero is the minimum Outsider count as it can never be negative) then apply the +1 modifier.

  However, most STs will use, and most players prefer, cumulative Outsider modification
  meaning zero Outsiders in this game, assuming no other sources of Outsider modification.

Q Does it matter how a character with an "even while dead" ability (Banshee / Heretic / Politician / Puzzlemaster / Recluse) dies?
A Only in the case of the Banshee that is only activated by being killed by the Demon.
  Other characters do not care how they are killed.

Q What happens when setup modifiers leads to requiring more Outsiders than there are on the script?
A Put all the Outsiders in play and ignore the additional modifiers.

Q Do choices made by a character while drunk or poisoned take effect if that character later becomes sober and healthy?
A Only for backwards-checking characters (Gossip / Moonchild),
  otherwise choices made while drunk or poisoned malfunction, which registers to the Mathematician, and have no effect on the gamestate.

  Physically the ST records the choices made by characters by placing reminder tokens in the Grimoire.
  However, choices made while drunk or poisoned do not cause reminder tokens to be placed.
  Consequently the character becoming sober and healthy is immaterial;
  their ability is unable to have any effect since their no players were marked.

  Examples include:
  * the Demon, made drunk by the Courtier, attacks a player who is not marked to die and does not die even though the Courtier later dies to the Gossip;
  * the Devil's Advocate, made drunk by the Innkeeper, fails to protect their Demon, who will still not be safe from execution tomorrow even when the Innkeeper dies tonight;
  * the Devil's Advocate picks the Goon and becomes drunk, so no protection token is placed,
    then even though the DA becomes sober when the Goon is transformed (Barber / Pit-Hag) the ex Goon is not safe from execution tomorrow;

  The exception is for backwards-checking abilities
  where reminder tokens are always placed
  and drunkenness and poisoning only checked for when the ability would do something.

Q Do the effects of a dead player's ability persist?
A Only if the dead player has an "even while dead" ability
  (Banshee / Heretic / Politician / Puzzlemaster / Recluse),
  or it is the player's death that triggered the effect
  (Sweetheart).
  
  Regular characters lose their ability on death
  meaning any effects they caused,
  including any protection (Innkeeper / Monk / Tea Lady), drunkenness (Courtier / Innkeeper / Sailor) or poisoning,
  immediately end
  so the ST should remove any reminder tokens due to that character,
  meaning that the affected players are immediately no longer protected / drunk / poisoned.

Q Do any effects caused by a character remain if the player is swapped (Barber / Engineer / Hatter / Pit-Hag) to another character?
A No.

  A character swapping to another player is treated as a new instance of the character.
  The old instance of the character and any effects they cause leave play,
  so the ST should first remove the that instance's reminder tokens from the Grimoire.
  
  Examples include:
  * the Poisoner no longer poisons their neighbour after they become the Imp, after the previous Imp self-killed.
  * the Savant becomes sober after the Philosopher Savant is turned into an Outsider by the Pit-Hag.
  * the Pit-Hag turns the dead Sweetheart into another Outsider, instantly sobering the previously drunk player.
  * the Fang Gu jumps to the Puzzlemaster, instantly sobering the previously drunk player.
  * the Devils' Advocate is swapped to another player, removing the protection due to the previous DA.

Q How are the effects caused by a character affected when the character becomes drunk or poisoned?
A They are no longer applied.

  During the time that a player is drunk or poisoned,
  any effect that they are causing, including any protection, drunkenness or poisoning, is no longer applied.
  The ST can indicate this by turning that player's reminder tokens upside-down in the meantime.

Q Does misregistering as another character give a player that character's ability?
A No.

  For example:
  * the Recluse misregistering as the Leviathan does not cause a Leviathan annoucement at the start of the day;
  * a Townsfolk player cannot be executed for nominating the Spy misregistering as the Virgin;
  * the Recluse misregistering as the Spy cannot then misregister as a Townsfolk and trigger the Virgin.

Q Does the good team win if the only living Demon is good?
A No.

  The good team's win condition is no living Demon.
  If there are multiple Demons then, regardless of alignment, they must all be dead for the good team to win.

Q Do public info gatherers (Artist / Fishermonger / Savant / ...) have to ask use their ability publicly?
A No.

  The player has a private conversation with the ST.
  Other players will see the player talking to the ST but will not know if it is ability related, an evil player coordinating with the ST, a rules clarification, ...

Q Why are there sometimes tiny character icons underneath some characters on the character sheet?
A Those symbolise a jinx from the Djinn Fabled.

  Jinxes represent clarifications or fixes for bad or confusing interactions between characters.

Q If the dead Klutz / Moonchild is resurrected / regurgitated but then killed on the same night,
  does their ability trigger?
A No.

  Both the Moonchild and Klutz pick when they learn that they have died,
  but as nothing is ever announced by the ST when a player is revived and killed in the same night, 
  they are never prompted to use their ability again,
  even if they surmise that they must have been alive at some point.

Q If a player with the Klutz or Moonchild ability dies in the night but is resurrected / regurgitated before they wake,
  does their ability trigger?
A No.

  The trigger for the Klutz and the Moonchild is learning that they have died,
  which effectively means that they only have to use their ability when the ST announces that they have died.

  The ST only ever announces changes in life status,
  so if a player goes to sleep and wakes up with the same life status
  then nothing is announced in the morning,
  so the player is not prompted to use their ability.

  Even if the player subsequently determines in some way that they must have died at some point
  they do not have to retroactively make a pick because at no point did the ST announce that they were dead.
  An example of such is the Philosopher who chose Klutz being woken to choose another ability realising that they must have been killed and resurrected the previous night.
